0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today my guest is Dr. Sam Harris. Dr. Sam Harris did his undergraduate training in philosophy at Stanford University and then went on to do his doctorate in neuroscience at the University of California Los Angeles. He is well known as an author who has written about everything from meditation to consciousness free will, and he holds many strong political views that he's voiced on social media and in the content of various books as they relate to philosophy and neuroscience.

0 (42s):
During today's episode, I mainly talked to Dr. Harris about his views and practices related to meditation, consciousness, and free will. In fact, he made several important points about what a proper meditation practice can accomplish. Prior to this episode, I thought that meditation was about deliberately changing one's conscious experience in order to achieve things such as deeper relaxation, a heightened sense of focus or ability to focus generally elevated memory and so on. What Sam taught me and what you'll soon learn as well is that while meditation does indeed hold all of those valuable benefits, the main value of a meditation practice or perhaps the greater value of a meditation practice, is that it doesn't just allow one to change their conscious experience, but it actually can allow a human being to view consciousness itself.

0 (1m 32s):
That is to understand what the process of consciousness is, and in doing so to profoundly shift the way that one engages with the world and with oneself in all practices, all environments, and at all times, both in sleep and in waking states, and in that way, making meditation perhaps the most potent and important portal by which one can access novel ways of thinking and being and viewing one's life experience. We also discussed the so-called mind body problem and issues of duality and free will, concepts from philosophy and neuroscience that fortunately, thanks to valuable experiments and deep thinking on the part of people like Dr.

0 (2m 13s):
Sam Harris and others is now leading people to understand really what free will is and isn't where the locus of free will likely sits in the brain if it indeed resides in the brain at all, and what it means to be a conscious being, and how we can modify our conscious states in ways that allow us to be more functional. We also discuss perception, both visual perception, auditory perception, and especially interesting to me, and I think as well, hopefully to you. Time perception, which we know is very elastic in the brain. The literal frame rate by which we process our conscious experience can expand and contract dramatically depending on our state of mind and how conscious we are about our state of mind.

0 (2m 55s):
So we went deep into that topic as well. Today's discussion was indeed an intellectual deep dive into all the topics that I mentioned a few moments ago, but it also included many practical tools. In fact, I pushed Sam to share with us what his specific practices are and how we can all arrive at a clear and better understanding of a meditation practice that we can each and all apply so that we can derive these incredible benefits, not just the ones related to stress and focus and enhanced memory, but the ones that relate to our consciousness that is to our deeper sense of self and to others. Several times during today's episode, I mentioned the Waking Up app. The Waking Up app was developed by Sam Harris, but I want to emphasize that my mention of the app is in no way a paid promotional.

0 (3m 39s):
Rather. The Waking Up app is one that I've used for some period of time now and find very, very useful. I have family members that also use it. Other staff members here at the Huberman Lab podcast use it because we find it to be such a powerful tool. Sam has generously offered huberman Lab podcast listeners, a 30 day completely free trial of the Waking Up app. If any of you want to try it, you can simply go to waking up.com/huberman to get that 30 day free trial. During today's discussion, we didn't just talk about meditation consciousness and free will. We also talked about psychedelics, both their therapeutic applications for the treatment of things like depression and ptsd, but also the use of psychedelics, and we discussed Sam's experiences with psychedelics as they relate to expanding one's consciousness.

0 (4m 21s):
I also ask Sam about his views and practices related to social media prompted in no small part by his recent voluntary decision to close down his Twitter account. So we talked about his rationale for doing that, how he feels about doing that, and I think you'll find that to be very interesting as well. Before you begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

Levels (4m 54s):
Our first sponsor is Levels. Levels is a program that lets you see how different foods and behaviors affect your health by giving you real-time feedback using a continuous glucose monitor. One of the most important factors in your immediate and long-term health are your blood sugar levels and not just your overall blood sugar levels, but your blood sugar levels throughout the day in response to different foods you eat, to fasting if you're into fasting to exercise and so forth. I started using levels some time ago in order to figure out how different foods impact my blood sugar levels, and indeed, it does that very well. It allowed me to see how certain foods really spike my blood sugar and others keep it more level, and in particular, how foods that I eat after exercise can help raise my blood glucose just enough, but not so much that then I get a crash two or three hours later, which was what was happening before I started using levels. I've made certain adjustments to my diet. I can now eat post exercise and still have plenty of energy throughout the day without any issue. It also has helped me understand how different behaviors impact my blood glucose levels. If you're interested in learning more about levels and trying a continuous glucose monitor yourself, go to levels dot slash huberman. Again, that's Levels link spelled L I N K slash huberman.

Whoop (6m 3s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Whoop. Whoop is a fitness wearable device that tracks your daily activity and sleep, but goes beyond activity and sleep tracking to provide real-time feedback on how to adjust your training and sleep schedules in order to feel and perform better. Six months ago, I started working with Whoop as a member of their Scientific advisory council as a way to help whoop advance their mission of unlocking human performance. And as a whoop user, I've experienced firsthand the health benefits of their technology. It's clear based on quality research that Whoop can inform you how well your sleeping, how to change your sleep habits, how to change your activity habits, even how to modify different aspects of your nutrition, exercise, sleep, and lifestyle in order to maximize your mental health, physical health and performance. So whether or not you're an athlete or you're exercising simply for health, whoop can really help you understand how your body functions under different conditions and how to really program your schedule, nutrition and exercise, and many other factors of your life in order to really optimize your health and performance, including your cognition. If you're interested in trying Whoop, you can go to join whoop spelled W H O O p.com/huberman. That's join whoop.com/huberman today and get your first month free.

Eight Sleep (7m 13s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by eight Sleep. Eight Sleep Makes Smart Mattress covers with cooling, heating and sleep tracking capacity. I've taught many times before on this podcast about the fact that sleep is the fundamental layer of mental health, physical health and performance. Now, one of the key things for getting a great night's sleep every single night is to optimize the temperature of your sleeping environment put simply In order to fall asleep and stay deeply asleep, your body temperature needs to drop by about one to three degrees, and waking up on the other hand, involves a heating of your body by about one to three degrees. With AIDS sleep, you can tune the temperature of your mattress cover or mattress to be cooler or hotter, depending on whether or not you tend to run too hot or too cold, and you can even vary it across the night so that you can access the best deep sleep early in the night, the so-called REM sleep, rapid eye movement sleep that's more pronounced in the later half of the night, and doing so, really get your sleep optimized, not just in terms of duration, but in terms of quality and the overall architecture of your sleep. This has a profound influence on your alertness, focus, mood, and many other important factors throughout the day. If you'd like to try eight sleep, you can go to eight sleep.com/huberman to save up to $150 off their Pod three, cover eight. Sleep. Currently ships to the USA Canada, United Kingdom Select countries in the EU and Australia. Again, that's eight sleep.com/huberman.

Momentus (8m 31s):
Huberman Lab podcast is proud to announce that we are now partnered with momentous supplements because momentous supplements are of the very highest quality they ship internationally, and they have single ingredient formulations. If you'd like to access the supplements discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast, you can go to live Momentus spelled O U s, so live momentus.com/huberman.

0 (8m 50s):
And now for my discussion with Dr. Sam Harris, Dr. Sam Harris, we're just talking about this. Yes, doctor, you are indeed a doctor.

2 (8m 59s):
Yes. I cannot save your life, but I am, I might, I might. I might save your non-existent soul if we talk long enough.

0 (9m 6s):
Well, neither of us are clinicians, but we are both brain explorers from the different perspectives. Some overlapping. Yeah, and I'm really excited to have this conversation. I've been listening to your voice for many years, learning from you for many years, and I'd be remiss if I didn't say that. My father, who's also a scientist, is an enormous fan of your Waking Up app.

2 (9m 31s):
Nice.

0 (9m 31s):
Sure. And has spent a lot of time over the last few years. He's in his late seventies, he's an almost 80. He's a theoretical physicist walking to the park near his apartment and spending time meditating with the app, or sometimes separate from the app, but using the same sorts of meditations in his head. Yeah. So he kinda toggles back and forth, and even, I shouldn't say even, but yes, even in his late seventies has reported that it has significantly shifted his awareness of self and his conscious experience of things happening in and around him. And he was somebody who I think already saw himself as a pretty aware person thinking about Yeah.

0 (10m 14s):
You know, quantum mechanics and and, and the rest. So a thank you from him indirectly. Oh, that's great. A thank you from me now directly. And I really wanna use that as a way to frame up what I think is one of the more interesting questions in not just science and philosophy in psychology, but all of life, which is what is this thing that we call a self? You know, as far as I know, we have not localized the region in the brain that can entirely account for our perception of self. There are areas, of course, that regulate proprioception, you know, our awareness of where our limbs are in space, maybe even our awareness of where we are in physical space. There are such circuits as we both know. Yeah.

0 (10m 54s):
But when we talk about sense of self, I have to remember this kind of neuroscience 1 0 1 thing that we always say. You know, when you teach memory, you say, you know, you wake up every morning and you remember who you are, you know who you are. Most people do, even if they lack memory systems in the brain for whatever reason. Hmm. Pretty much everyone seems to know who they are. What are your thoughts on what that whole thing is about? And do we come into the world feeling that way? I would appreciate answers from the perspective of any field.

2 (11m 26s):
Yeah.

0 (11m 27s):
Including neuroscience. Of

2 (11m 28s):
Course. Yeah. Well, big question. I mean, the problem is we, we use the term self in so many different ways, right? And, and there's, there's one sense of that term, which is the target of meditation. And, and, and it's the target of deconstruction by the practice and by just any surrounding philosophy. So you'll, you'll hear, and you'll hear it from me, that this self is an illusion, right? And, and that there's a, there's a, a psychological freedom that can be experienced on the other side of discovering it to be an illusion. And some people don't like that framing. Some people would, would insist that it's not so much an an illusion, but it's a, it's a construct and it's not what it seems, right?

2 (12m 10s):
But it's not that every use of the term self is illegitimate, and there's certain types of selves that are not elusory. I mean, you know, I'm not saying that people are illusions, I'm not saying that you can't talk about yourself as distinct yourself as, as the whole person. And, and, you know, as you know, psychological continuity with your past experience as being distinct from the person and psychological continuity of some other person, right? I mean, obvious, obviously, we have to be able to conserve those data. It's not fundamentally mysterious that you're gonna wake up tomorrow morning still being psychologically continuous with your past and not my past.

2 (12m 50s):
Right. And, and, you know, if we swapped lives, you know, that would, you know, demand some explanation. So the eucs of the self doesn't cut against any of those obvious facts. So the, the, the sense of self that is elusory, and again, we might wanna talk about self in other modes because there's, there's just a lot of interest there psychologically. And, you know, ultimately scientifically, the, the thing that doesn't exist, it certainly doesn't exist as it seems. And I would, I would wanna argue that it actually is just a proper illusion. Is this the sense that there is a subject interior to experience in addition to experience.

2 (13m 34s):
So most people feel like they're having an experience of the world, and they're having their, an experience of their bodies in the world. And in addition to that, they feel that they are a subject internal to the body. You know, very likely in the head, most people feel like they're behind their face as a kind of locus of awareness and thought and intention, and, and, and that every, it's almost like they're, you're a passenger inside your body. You don't, most people don't feel identical to their bodies. And they can imagine, and this, this is sort of the origin, the psychological origin, you know, that the folk psychological origin of, of a sense of that there's, there might be a soul that could survive the death of the body.

2 (14m 15s):
I mean, most people are, are what my friend Paul Bloom calls common sense doulas. Right? You, you, you're used to the de default expectation seems to be that whatever the relationship between the mind and the body, there's this, there's some promise of separability there, right? That the, and whenever you really push hard on the science side and say, well, no, no, the mind is really just what the brain is doing, that begins to feel more and more counterintuitive to people. And there still seems some, some residual mystery that, you know, at death, maybe something is, is gonna lift off the brain and go elsewhere, right? So there's this sense of dualism that many people have, and obviously that that's supported by many religious beliefs.

2 (15m 2s):
But this feeling, it is a very peculiar starting point. People feel they, in a, in a, they don't feel identical to their experience, right? As a matter of experience. They feel like they're on the edge of experience, somehow appropriating it from the side, kind of on the edge of the world. And the world is out there. Your body is, is in some sense an object in the world, which you, you know, you, it's different from the world. You know, the boundary of your skin is still meaningful. You can sort of loosely control your body. I mean, you can't control, you can control your gross, you know, and, and subtle, you know, voluntary motor movements.

2 (15m 42s):
But you can't, you're not controlling everything your body is doing. You're not controlling your heartbeat and your, you know, your hormonal secretions and all of that. And so there's a lot that's going on that is in the dark for you. And then you, you, you give someone an instruction to meditate, say, and you say, okay, well let's, let's examine all of this from the first person's side. Let's look for this thing you're calling. I, and again, I is not identical to the body. People feel like their hands are out there and they're go when, if they're gonna meditate, they're gonna close their eyes very likely. And now they're gonna pay attention to something, they're gonna pay attention to the breath or to sounds.

2 (16m 21s):
And it's from the point of view of being a locus of attention that is now aiming attention strategically at an object like the breath, that there's this dualism that is set up and, and ultimately the ultimate promise of meditation. I mean, there are really two levels at which you could be interested in, in meditation. One is, you know, very straightforward and remedial and non paradoxical and very well subscribed. And it's, it's the usual set of claims about all the benefits you're gonna get from meditation, right? So you're gonna lower your stress and you're gonna increase your focus, and you're gonna, you know, stave off cortical thinning. And there's all kinds of good things that science is saying.

2 (17m 1s):
Meditation will, will give you. And none of that entails really drilling down on this paradoxical claim that the self is an illusion or, or anything else of that sort. But from my point of view, the real purpose of meditation and its real promise is not in this long list of, of benefits. And, you know, I'm not discounting any of those, though, you know, the science for many of them is quite provisional. It's in this deeper claim that if you look for this thing you're calling, I, if you look for the sense that, that there's a thinker in addition to the, the, the mirror rising of the next thought, say, you won't find that thing.

2 (17m 44s):
And, and you can, what's more, you cannot find it in a way that's conclusive and that matters. Right? And it, and it, and it has a, there's a host of benefits that follow from that discovery, which are quite a bit deeper and more interesting than engaging meditation on the side of its benefits. You know, de-stressing increasing focus and all the rest.

0 (18m 7s):
Yeah. I have a number of questions related to what you just said. And first of all, I, I agree that the evidence that meditation can improve focus, reduce stress, et cetera, it's there, it's not an enormous pile of evidence, but it's growing. And I think that, especially for some of the shorter meditations, which I these days view more as perceptual exercises, you know, talked about this on the podcast before, but for those that haven't heard it before about, you know, perception, you can have interoception extending things beyond the confines of your skin in interoception, which is think also includes the surfaces of the skin. But everything inward and meditation through eyes closed, typically involving some sort of attentional, spotlighting, something we'll get into to more interceptive versus interceptive events, et cetera, including thoughts.

0 (18m 57s):
And so I think of at a, at a basic level meditation as a somewhat of a perceptual exercise, you can tell me where you disagree there. And I, I would expect and hope that, that you would Yeah. But I would like to just touch on this idea that you brought up. Cause it's such an interesting, one of this idea that our bodies are containers and that we somehow view ourselves as passengers within those containers. That's certainly been my experience. And the image that I have is of, as you say, that is of myself or of people out there that sit a, a few centimeters below the surface or that sit entirely in their head. And of course the brain and body are connected through the nervous system.

0 (19m 40s):
I think sometimes a brain is used to replace nervous system and that can get us into trouble. Mm. In terms of coming up with real, real directions and definitions. But the point is that there is something special about the real estate in the head. I think for as much as my laboratory and many other scientists are, are really interested in brain body connections through the nervous system and other organ systems of the, that the nervous system binds that if you cut off all my limbs, I'm going to be different. But I'm fundamentally still Andrew. Whereas if we were to lesion a, you know, a couple square millimeters out of my paral cortex, it's an open question as to whether or not I would still seem as much like Andrew to other people and to myself even.

0 (20m 23s):
Yeah. And so there's something fundamentally different about the real estate in the cranial vault, right? I even remove both of my eyes. I'd still be Andrew, and those are two pieces of my central nervous system that are fundamental to my daily life, but I'd still be me. Yeah. Whereas, and this doesn't, I think just apply to memory systems. I mean, I think there are reasons of the frontal cortex that when destroyed have been shown to modify personality and self-perception in, in dramatic ways. So it's a sort of obvious point once it's made. But I do think it's worth highlighting cuz there does seem to be something special about being in the head. The other thing is that sitting a few centimeters below the surface, or riding in this container makes sense to me, except I, I wonder if you've ever experienced a shift as I have when something very extreme happens.

0 (21m 14s):
Let's use the the negative example of, you know, all of a sudden you're in a fear state, all of a sudden it feels as if your entire body is, is you or is me and is and, and now I need to get this thing, the whole container and me to some place of safety in one whatever form. This is also true, I think in ecstatic states. Yeah. Where you can feel really f when people say embodied, I wonder whether or not we normally oscillate below the surface of our body. And when I say oscillate, I mean in neural terms. I mean, maybe our sensory experience is not truly at the bodily surface, but sits below the bodily surface more at the level of organ systems and within our head. And then certain things that jolt us, our autonomic nervous system into heightened states, bring us into states of, you know, bring us closer to the surface and therefore include all of us.

0 (22m 1s):
Again, I don't want to take us down a a mechanistic description of, of something that doesn't exist, but does any of that resonate in terms of how you are thinking about or describing the self?

2 (22m 11s):
Yeah, yeah. There's, there's a lot there. First on the point of the brain being, you know, the, the locus of, of what we are as minds. Yeah. I mean, there, there are people who will insist that sort of, the whole nervous system has to be thought of as the, when you're talking about our emotional life and you, you know, the, the, the, the insular connection to the gut and you just, the, the, the sense of, of self extends beyond the brain. But I, I totally take your point that a brain transplant is a coherent idea and you would expect to go with the brain rather than with the, the viscera. And so in that sense, we really are the, the old philosophical thought experiment of, of being a brain and a vat.

2 (22m 57s):
I mean, we essentially are already, you know, the, the vat is our skull. And we're, you know, virtually in that situation,

0 (23m 4s):
Horrible movie. I'm sorry, I can't help but interrupt. When I was a, a teenager, my sister and I used to go to the movies every once in a while we'd trade off who could pick the movie. And she took me to see once the movie Boxing Helena, the David Lynch film. I

2 (23m 17s):
Never

0 (23m 17s):
Saw that. Yeah. Where he amputates the limbs of a woman who he's obsessed by and keeps her, it's a really horrible film. And about 20 minutes into it, my sister just turned to me and said, I'm so sorry. And the question there was whether or not two siblings should actually persist in a movie like that. Right. We decided to persist in the movie so that we could laugh about it later, but it was rather disturbing. I don't recommend the movie, nor do I recommend seeing it with a sibling. But in that movie that the woman, he, he takes her as a container and tr and restricts her movement. Right. Quite sadistic and horrible thing really, David Lynch interesting mind perhaps. But the, the idea was that was to question how much of the person persists in the absence of their ability to move, et cetera.

0 (23m 60s):
Could there be love, could there be these other affections? Anyway, rather extreme example, but one that I, that still haunts me and I suppose I'm thinking about still now.

2 (24m 9s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, so, but just to follow that point, there's a, there's a lot about us that we don't have access to un unless we enact it physically. Like, you know, if I ask you, you know, do you still know how to ride a bike? Right? There's no place in your memory where you can, you can inspect by you just sitting in your chair that you, you've retained the knowledge of how to ride a bike, right? Like it's procedural memory is different from semantic or episodic memory. If I asked you, you know, you know, do you know your address? Yes, you can recall your address just sitting there. But if you, if you had had a micros stroke that neatly dissected out your ability to ride a bike, you know, and, and left everything else intact, you know, you might think you could ride a bike, but suddenly you stand up next to one and you have no idea what to do with it.

2 (24m 59s):
And that would be a discovery that would only happen if you were, you know, motorically engaged with that, you know, object. And I'm sure there's, you know, we could probably come up with a hundred things about us that really seem core to us, and we, and, and are not separable for our, you know, from our, you know, personhood, which seem to only cut, you know, only get invoked when we're, you know, out there moving in the world. And, you know, we have limbs, et cetera. And, but yeah, no, it's the, the seat of, of consciousness. I mean the, the right framework to talk about all of this from my point of view is consciousness and its contents, right?

2 (25m 41s):
So we have consciousness, the fact that there's something that is like to be us, right? The fact that that the world and our internal experience is, is illuminated that it has a qualitative character. And then there's a question of what is that qualitative character? What is, you know, what kinds of information do we have access to? What does it feel like to be us? How do, how do different states of arousal change that? So you talked about fear. Yeah. I mean, fear can change a lot of things, but, and, you know, various neurological deficits or, you know, you know, you can add drugs to the mix. You add psychedelics that radically transform the contents of consciousness. From my point of view, consciousness itself is simply the, the cognizance, the awareness, the, that, that, that is the, the floodlights by which any of that stuff appears, right?

2 (26m 32s):
So consciousness doesn't change, but its contents change. And to come back to meditation for a second, many people think meditation is about changing the contents of consciousness. You, there's some con some contents you wanna get rid of, like anxiety, other contents you want to, to encourage like calm and, you know, unconditional love or you know, some other, you know, classically pleasant pro-social emotion. And that's all fine, that's all possible. But the real, you know, wisdom of, you know, the, the 2000 year old wisdom of meditation, that really is the, you know, the, the chewy center of the, the tusi pop is a recognition of what consciousness itself is always already, like regardless of the contents and, and the changes in contents.

2 (27m 20s):
And this is why, I mean, we might talk about this, but this is why they're mutually compatible. Psychedelics and meditation for me are somewhat orthogonal because psychedelics is all about making wholesale changes to the contents of consciousness. And, and there's a, you know, some wonderful consequences of doing that. There can be some heroine and terrifying consequences of doing that. But generally speaking, I think, you know, you used, used wisely, they can be incredibly valuable. And, and the therapeutic potential there is enormous. But the crucial disjunction here is that there really is something to recognize about ordinary waking consciousness that the consciousness that's compatible with my driving a car to get here on time.

2 (28m 2s):
Right. You know, you don't have to, you don't have to have the pyrotechnics of be being on L s D to see the, the, the, the, to transcend the central illusion that I'm, I'm saying is, is the thing to be transcendent, which is the sense that there is a duality between subject and object in every moment of experience. And to take it back to, to something you said about just all of our different modes in ordinary life, the interesting thing is I think people are constantly losing their sense of self and they're not aware of it. And I mean, there, there's a probably an analogy to the visual system here, which is to visual ADEs, which perhaps you've spoken about at some point on your podcast, not enough.

2 (28m 49s):
So please, yeah, yeah. So, so what happens with our, you know, every time we move our eyes, this is called a, a Sade. And we do that about, you know, three times a second or so, just normally there is a, you know, the, the region of motor cortex that, that affects that movement sends what's called an an ENT copy of that motor movement, which is, which is used as information that propagates back to visual cortex that suppresses the data of vision while the eyes are moving. Because otherwise, if you weren't doing that, every time you moved your eyes, it would seem like the visual scene itself was lurching around. And people can experience this for themselves if they just, you know, touch one of their eyeballs on the side, you know, not all that hard and kind of jiggle it, you know, and then you can roll it around.

2 (29m 37s):
You can jiggle it from side to side. You can see that a, a, a movement of the eyeball that's not governed by your ocular motor system delivers a jiggling of the world because it's not, your brain is not anticipating it in the same way, and it's not, you're not producing that, that that same, you know, predictive copy of, of the movement.

0 (29m 58s):
It's a little bit like we have some action sports filmers on our staff here that the gimbal, you know, that holds a, a, an iPhone. Like you see the kids on surfboards or skateboards or something, they're gonna hold a phone while moving around. Or the people who, the vloggers, does anyone even still use that for his Yes. Moving around and to, it's, it's image stabilization, right? Essentially that keeps the, the camera steady. And these are more than cameras, of course, the, the, for those listening I pointed at my eyes, but they do far more than just what a camera would do, but yeah, this internal system of, of image stabilization. Yeah. I can see perhaps where you're going with this that, that it allows us to remain in a self-referencing scheme as opposed to sort of paying attention to just how confusing it is to, to track the visual world at some level.

2 (30m 48s):
Right? Well, actually where I'm going is, so people are having this suppression of vision three times a second on average, and they're not experiencing it, right? So like, you're, like, you're literally, like, you're, you're, you're effectively going blind and you're not noticing it. And

0 (31m 6s):
This is very

2 (31m 7s):
Fast. Yes. It's very fast. Now there, there's an analogous suppression, I would say, of the sense of self that occurs every time attention gets absorbed significantly. And its object, right? So like, like we, we even have this concept of, you know, losing yourself in your work or, you know, you losing your, I mean, the classic flow experiences have this, this quality where there's the, and this, this tends to be why they're so rewarding where there's just, if you're in, in some, you know, athletic activity or you know, an, an aesthetic one, or you could be having sex or you could be whatever it is, some peak experience, its peakiness usually entails there being some brief period where there was no distance between you and the experience right there for that moment.

2 (32m 0s):
You were no longer looking over your own shoulder or anticipating the next moment or trying to get somewhere where, where you weren't, or, you know, micromanaging errors or, you know, like this, you know, there's not, there's just the flow of unity with whatever the, the, you know, whatever the experience is, you know, a surfer on, on the wave, right? And we love those experiences, and then we are continually abstracted away from them by our thinking about them. We were thinking, oh my God, that was so good. Or how do I get back to that? Or, you know, you're looking at a sunset, it's the most beautiful sunset you've ever seen.

2 (32m 40s):
And then you're continually interrupting the experience of merely seeing it with a commentary about how amazing this is. And I wonder, you know, what are real estate prices are here? I mean, is it possible to actually, we could move here and like your, your, your mind is just continually narrating a conversation you're having with yourself. However, paradoxically, I mean, you're telling yourself things yourself, things that you already know as though there were two of you rather often, right? Like, you know, you're just, you know, I'm looking for, you know, which, which is the water. And I say, oh, there it is, right? But like, I'm the one seeing it. Who am I saying, oh, the, you know, there it is too. So there's someone else who needs to be informed about the thing I already saw, right?

2 (33m 24s):
So it's, it's, there's something about our internal dialogue that is paradoxical.

0 (33m 30s):
Is there any neurologic condition, colosectomy or, or anything like that where somehow people feel more unified with the cell on a continual basis, the observer and the actor within Yeah. Whether it stay more, more as a, as a complete sentence. Is there any known neurological syndrome makes it sound like a bad thing, but it could be a good thing whereby people feel that the actor and the observer within them are unified continually.

2 (34m 1s):
There's not a pathological one. Some of them, the work on the default mode network suggests that that's at least part of the story, right? So the default mode network, which has been talked about a lot of late, because it's, it has come up both in the, in the meditation literature and in the psychedelic literature, but its original discovery was that, you know, and the reason why it was called the default mode was, is that in virtually every neuroimaging experiment ever run, they found that between tasks, when the brain was just in its default state, the, these, these midline structures would, would increase their activity. And then they would, then they would reliably diminish whenever the person in the scanner was, was on task.

2 (34m 48s):
And usually that meant some kind of outward looking, you know, visual discrimination task. I mean, but it could be, it could be, you know, it could be visual, it could be semantic, it could be, but they're, it tends to be their eyes are open and they're paying attention to something that's being broadcast to them through, you know, monitor goggles or, you know, they're looking at a mirror that's showing them a computer monitor. But the, so the, the general insight was there are these midline structures in the brain that seem to be increasing their activity when the brain is just kind of idling between tasks, waiting for something to happen, and then further experiments found tasks that actually upregulated activity there beyond baseline.

2 (35m 32s):
And those tasks seem to be self-referential. So that when you ask people, you know, you give 'em a list of words and you say, well, do these, any, any of these apply to you? Right. You know, and so people are, or, or you ask people to think about, you know, actually in one experiment I did, when you, you know, when you're challenging people's beliefs, when you're challenging beliefs that, that have more of a personal significance like political or religious beliefs, you get an upregulation in these regions as opposed to just generic beliefs about, you know, you're in Los Angeles, this is a table, you know, there's something to which, you know, people are not, you know, holding fast as a matter of identity.

2 (36m 13s):
So anyway, both meditation and psychedelics seem to suppress activity in these, in these regions, which we know are associated with both self-talk, mind wandering and, and explicit acts of self-representation. Right. So

0 (36m 31s):
Could we say that they're somewhat autobiographical because they access memory systems and in the way you're describing them and in the way that a colleague of mine who's been a guest on this podcast, I don't know if you've interacted with him before, but I think you'd very much enjoy whatever interaction you would have as David Spiegel, he's our associate chair of psychiatry. He and his father, actually his father, then he founded hypnosis as a valid clinical practice in psychiatry and hypnosis, which is obviously a heightened sense of attention with deep relaxation, is known to dramatically suppress the, the default mode network. He talks about this a lot, and I, I always wonder as we take down activity within the default mode network, what surfaces it in its place and is what surfaces is in its place, does that somehow reflect that the two are normally in a push pull?

0 (37m 22s):
Because that's not necessarily the case, right? Right. When I fall asleep, I can hallucinate, but that doesn't mean that during the day, my, the fact that I'm looking at objects is, is what's preventing me from hallucinating. If I close my eyes, I can get imagery. But, you know, there's this kind of a, a different illusion. The illusion of antagonistic circuitry sometimes I don't wanna take us off course, but the default mode network seems to want to be there, quote unquote, it seems, it seems to be fighting for, for our attention, unless we give ourselves a visual target at an auditory target or some salient experience of some kind, it sounds like. And then if I'm surprised to hear that meditation reduces activity in the default mode network at some level, because meditation to me, oftentimes involves paying attention to a, some sort of perceptual target, right?

0 (38m 10s):
Yeah. So maybe you could eventually explain as to how it might do that or why it might

2 (38m 15s):
Yeah, and, and I don't, I don't think it's the whole story because obviously outward going attention is not, even if you're having the kind of egoic cade that I'm talking about where you're like, you're actually not clearly aware of, of yourself, you're not clearly defining yourself as separate, separate from experience for the moment of paying attention. So you are sort of losing yourself in your work. That's not the same thing as having the clear meditative insight of selflessness that I'm, that I'm claiming is the goal of meditation. But there is a, well, you know, to, to wind back to the original point I was making and the reason why I drew the ref, the analogy to visual ADEs, I do think there's a continuous interruption in our sense of self that goes unrecognized.

2 (39m 4s):
And, but, but, but the conscious acquisition of of, of the understanding that the self is an illusion is a different experience. And it's, I mean, cuz you're, you're then, you're then focusing on this absence. Actually there's another analogy to to the visual system that applies here, which is to the, the optic blind spot. I mean, it's like, so, which is a good analogy for me because it cuts through a, a bunch of false assumption as to we kind of where that you would look for this or how this relates to ordinary experience. So as many people know that we have, you know, in both eyes we have what's called the blind spot, which is a consequence of the optic nerve transiting through the retina.

2 (39m 51s):
I mean, unlike cephalopods, I think, I mean I think cephalopods have their optic nerve, you know, as, you know, a a an ammunition being would've engineered it, connecting the retina from the back and therefore there is no blind area of, of blindness associated with its transit back through the retina, but

0 (40m 10s):
Photoreceptors on the outside. Exactly. Yeah. Humans, for whatever reason, put photo. Well, yes, I always say I wasn't consulted the design phase something put photoreceptors combination of things, put photoreceptors in the back and so you, you actually have to send the highway through, through the pixel center of the, of the eye. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Cephalopods and drosophila basically invertebrates, right? The design is more at its face, logical mammals, very illogical design, at least as far as our judgments

2 (40m 45s):
Go. Yeah. But it gives, it gives me a good analogy. So I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll take it.

AG1 (40m 49s):
I'd like to take a brief break and acknowledge our sponsor Athletic Greens. Athletic Greens is an all-in-one vitamin mineral probiotic drink that also contains digestive enzymes and adaptogens. I started taking Athletic Greens way back in 2012, so that's 10 years now of taking Athletic Greens every single day. So I'm delighted that they're sponsoring this podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens, and the reason I still take Athletic Greens is that it covers all of my foundational nutritional needs. So whether or not I'm eating well, or enough or not, I'm sure that I'm covering all of my needs for vitamins, minerals, probiotics, adaptogens to combat stress, and the digestive enzymes really help my digestion. I just feel much better when I'm drinking athletic greens. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman, and for the month of January, they have a special offer where they'll give you 10 free travel packs plus a year's supply of Vitamin D three. K2, vitamin D three and K2 are vital for immune function, metabolic function, hormone health, but also calcium regulation and heart health. Again, that's athletic greens.com/huberman to claim their special offer in the month of January of 10 free travel packs, plus a year supply of vitamin D three K two.

2 (41m 58s):
So in any case, we have this blind spot, which you can, I think most people learn this in school, although my daughters had not been taught this in school, I just showed them this for the first time, like a month ago, which, and they were briefly fascinated and they want to return to their screen time. But anyway, you can take a piece of paper and you make, you know, two marks on it, and then you cover one eye and you fixate on, on one mark. I mean, you can look this up online if you need details about how to do this. And you, while staring at one fixation point, you move the the paper back and forth and you can get it to a place where the other mark disappears. And that, and if, and you know, you can run this experiment long enough to satisfy yourself that there is in fact a blind spot on your visual field, which you with one eye closed, you don't normally notice.

2 (42m 47s):
The reason why you have to cover cover one eye is because each eye compensates for the, the blind spot of the other. So, but which is to say that if you close one eye and, and survey the visual scene, something really is missing whatever you're looking at. If you're looking at a crowd of people, somebody is missing ahead and you're not noticing it. And it's not, it's not easy to notice because, you know, the, the brain doesn't tend to vividly represent the absence of information. I mean, it's just like this, this is part of the game that's not being rendered. It's not, it's not showing up as a, a break in your, in the visual field. It's just not there. And you're, I mean, the people have argued that there's a, a kind of filling in phenomenon that happens, but I, I think that can be, you know, misunderstood or, or exaggerated,

0 (43m 34s):
But the eye movements themselves that you described before, I, I guess I should say that the, the, the sacada analogy of about tr transiently and repetitively erasing the self Yeah. Works perfectly here because indeed micross little smaller saccos occur all the time, also prevent our eyes from fixating at one location Exactly. Long enough to observe our blind spot even if one eye is closed. Right? Right. So if we, the, the experiment's done with paralytics to essentially lock eyes at one location, basically things just start disappearing.

2 (44m 2s):
Yeah. It just, basically,

0 (44m 3s):
We'd all love to think that we start hallucinating, but actually we start going blind. Right. And those experiments have been done and on humans, I I hear they're quite terrifying.

2 (44m 10s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I mean, you can do that for yourself, dude. It just, you know, it begins to just off melt away, meld away in, in a warm glow. No psychedelics required. But the, the interesting point there is that when you ask yourself, okay, so this because of, as a consequence of the eyes anatomy, there's this, this thing, you can see that that is absent from your experience. But the question is, where is that in relationship to the rest of you, to your mind? Is that deep within, or is that in some sense Right on the surface of experience. And there's, there's expectation that people have.

2 (44m 51s):
Again, I think conflating meditation with, with a search for changes in the contents of consciousness, they're looking for, you know, you know much more subtle things to, to, to notice about the mind or much, you know, vast things to notice. Psychedelics sets up this, this expectation that, you know, you do, you know, a massive dose of mushrooms or LSD and everything changes. I mean, you just get the, this full, you know, thetic vision and you know, you get not only visual changes, but you know, emotional changes and, and you get synesthesia where like you're just, you have much more mind in, in, in so many ways.

2 (45m 34s):
So they begin, you, you having these experiences or reading the mystical literature, you begin to think, okay, well then freedom is, is really elsewhere or is, is really, it is deep within, it's like, it's not, it's not coincident with the ordinary awareness that can, that can see this coffee cup clearly. And that can just transition attention to, you know, reading an email, you know, with, with the sort of full sobriety of just, you know, you know, ordinary waking consciousness. But the truth is, this insight into selflessness, this insight into the non-duality of subject and object is as close to ordinary consciousness as this insight into the optic blind spot.

2 (46m 18s):
Like what, where do you have to go to have this insight into the blind spot? No, you just have to s you have to go anywhere. You just have to set up the, the, the experiment correctly such that, you know, you, you can see the data, but the data's right on the surface. It's like, it's, it's, it's almost too close to you to notice. I mean, if it's at all hard to notice, it's becau it's because it's so close rather than it's, you know, deep within or far away. And there are other analogies like I don't remember those mind's eye pieces of artwork that were those the random dot stereograms. Oh yeah. Where you have an image that pops out. I always find it very difficult to see, see those, cause I have, you know, very dominant eye, you know, but some

0 (46m 57s):
People, people can't see those. These are these images that used to be at the kind of like touristy shops of a bunch. People say, oh there it is the whale. And I'm thinking, I don't see it. You know, kids that swim a lot when they're younger and they're, I tend to breathe just to one side. I don't know if this was you, this was definitely me. They tend to will keep one eye closed. You set up a pretty strong ocular dominance biasing your vision to one or the other eye early in life. Whether or not you're learning how to be a bow hunter or you're learning how to throw darts or shoot billiards or anything involves selectively viewing the world through one eye for even a couple of hours can set up a permanent Huh. Asymmetry in the waiting of, of visual flow, right.

0 (47m 39s):
Of inf flow of visual information from the eye to the brain. It's reversible, but only through the reverse gymnastics of covering up the other eye. Yeah, intentionally. Yeah. Yeah. So I actually be, I had to be reverse patched for a while cause I was seeing double because I lost binocular vision. I don't stand a chance in hell of seeing an image pop out of a random poster stereogram, which is kind of ironic cuz I did my PhD on binocular circuitry. Right. But Right. And nonetheless, if people can see these, or if they can't, I think they provide a really terrific example of what you're talking about as a larger theme, which is that perceptually you see a bunch of dots and then all of a sudden, right, what you thought wasn't there is suddenly there but can dis disappear again.

0 (48m 21s):
Or there are certain visual illusions, if we were to include others, that once you see them, you cannot unsee them. Right. So there's the faces vs you know, figure ground type stuff. Yeah. Very

2 (48m 32s):
Is bit bi-stable. Percep.

0 (48m 33s):
Yeah. Yeah. Bi stable percep. And then there's sort of ocular competition. You show two different images to the eyes, each of the two eyes. Right. And it is near impossible for people to perceive them both simultaneously. Yeah. So it's a little bit of what you're describing. I mean, these seem to be fundamental features about the way the neural circuits are organized, that they don't want to stably, we don't, they don't wanna stay fixated on any one thing for very long to do. So either takes training intense interest, intense fear, intense excitement. When I say intense, I guess I come back to this idea that the autonomic nervous system is somehow governing our ability to spotlight at any one location for very long. Does that, is that a useful framework or is that gonna take us down a, a different

2 (49m 14s):
Path? Well, it's, it's sort of a different path for this. I mean, for the only point I was making is that the seemingly paradoxical claim that something can be right on the surface and yet hard to see. Right? So like there, there, there are things that are, because it's, and again, this, this, this seems to justify the expectation held by, I would think, you know, the vast majority of people who get interested in these, you know, spiritual things, for lack of a better word, that the truth must somehow be deep within, right? Like the, the, like, there's really like a, there's some distance between where your, between the one who is looking and the thing that has to be found, right?

2 (49m 55s):
And you have to go through this, this long evolution of changes. I mean, there are many metaphors that set this up. It's like you're at the base of a mountain and you have to climb to the top. And so you have to find the path, however secure, secure does to get you there. But there really is a distance between where your, between your starting point and the goal and what I'm arguing, you know, and this is a kind of a non-dual, to use a term of jargon. This is a non-dual approach to meditation as opposed to a dualistic one that there really is a, a, the, the path and the goal are, are are coincident, right? That there's a, there that you have to unravel the logic by which you would seek something that's outside of you.

2 (50m 41s):
You know, the, the the present moment's experience, you know, i e not available, really not available to you now because so many things worth having, so many, so many skills worth acquiring really are not available to you now. It's like, it's like, you know, if you want to be a, a pianist or if you wanna speak Chinese or if you want like, like the, you, there's something you don't know and then you wanna learn that thing and there's a whole process, right? And you might not be capable of doing it, right? You might, and, and real mastery is far away, right? If you, if you've never hit a golf ball and you want to hit a golf ball 300 yards straight, right? You know, I can pretty much guarantee you're not gonna do that initially and you're not gonna do it, you know, on day two and you're not gonna do it reliably for the longest time.

2 (51m 27s):
And there's real training, you know, in front of you to, to be able to do that reliably. An insight into, and really the core insight, I mean the insight that is, you know, the core of, you know, the Buddhas teaching to take one one historical example of this really is available now. And it is not. I mean, you know, granted it can be very hard one for people. I mean, I, I had probably spent a year on silent retreat in, in, you know, one week to three month increments before I sort of got the point I'm making now, right? So like I, you know, it's, it's quite, it's, I mean literally, and this is, these are, you know, these are retreats where you spend, you know, 12 to 18 hours a day just meditating, trying to, to, you know, unpack the kinds of claims I'm, I'm, you know, making now.

2 (52m 23s):
So there it is po it's, it's possible to rigorously overlook this, it's possible to stand in front of the mind's eye image and stare in a way that is guaranteed not to give you pop out, right? And to be, to be adept at, you know, staring in that way. So it's possible to be misled. And so what I'm, what I'm trying to argue here is that there is, there's a fair amount of leverage you can get with, with better information, which can kind of cut the time course if you are searching for this thing and, and, and kind of cancel your false expectations about just where this is in relation to your ordinary waking consciousness. And it's possible to get bad information and to have a bunch of experiences.

2 (53m 4s):
You know, you go out, you go and do an ayahuasca trip and you have, it's incredibly valuable and it's valuable for all the ways in which it changed the contents of your consciousness in, in, you know, startling ways. And you had insights into your past and into your relationships and into why you're not as loving as you might be. And there's lots to think about and you're like, okay, that's all great, that's all something that, you know, you can, we can talk about. But there is, it's, it truly is orthogonal. I mean, if it makes a point of contact to what I'm talking about, it's really just at one point, you know, and it's at the point where this sense of, of subject object division in consciousness is elusory and vulnerable to investigation.

2 (53m 45s):
And if you investigate it as sort of the, the right plane of focus, you know, you pick the analogy you want from, you know, whether it's, you know, setting up the, the, the optic blind spot experiment in just the right way so that you can see that, you know, it's actually not the, the data is not there. Or, I mean, the biostable percep is, is great because, you know, when you see one of these images like the, the vase face diagram, or you know, the dalmatian, you know, that, that looks like just a mess of dots. And then you see the image of a Dalmatian dog pop out. Once you see it, you really can't unsee it. I mean, like, once you have the the requisite conceptual, you know, anchor to it, then every time you look, you're gonna find it again and, and eventually becomes effortless.

2 (54m 34s):
And that's what ultimately meditation is. I mean, th this kind of meditation, you, you ultimately learn to recognize that there's no separation from you between you and your experience, right? There's not the experience on the one hand and the self on the other. There's just experience, right? There's just seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, touching, thinking, feeling, you know, proprioception, add, add, whatever channels of information you want to that. But there's just the, there's just the totality of the energy of consciousness and its contents. And there's no, it's not that you are on the riverbank, and this is, this is how it can seem in the beginning, even when you're practicing meditation fairly diligently.

2 (55m 19s):
It can seem like you're on the riverbank watching the contents of consciousness flow by, and, and, and meditation is the act of doing that more and more dispassionately. So you're no longer grabbing at the, at the pleasant or pushing the unpleasant way. You're just kind of relaxing and in, in the most nonjudgmental frame of mind, just witnessing the flow, right? But if you're doing that dualistically, you feel like the meditator, you feel like the subject aiming attention. And so now you're on the riverbank watching everything go, go past. But the truth is, you are the river, right? Experience itself is that there is just experience itself.

2 (55m 60s):
You're not, you're not on the edge of experience. And everything you can notice is part of the, of the flow, right? And there's, and there's no point from which to abstract yourself away from the flow, to stand outside it and to say, okay, this is, this is my life. This is my experience, this is my body. Yes, you can do that. I mean, those are all just thoughts, but that's more of the flow, right? And so there, there is a, there's a process by which you would eventually, eventually recognize that there's no distance between you and your experience. And again, you can, you can wait for those moments in life where experience gets so good or so terrifying, you know? Or just so salient, right?

2 (56m 40s):
Your amygdala is driving so hard. I mean, so you're in, in a war and you can't think about anything because there, you know, the enemy's shooting at you, and this is the most thrilling video game you've ever played in your life. And your life is on the line, or you are, you are, you know, at the peak of, of some, you know, athletic event where there's just, you don't know how you're doing the things you're doing, but it's all happening automatically. Right? But, you know, those are, those are, you know, one, 100th of 1% of one's life. You know, and you know what I'm calling, meditation is a way of simply understanding the mechanics of attention, whereby you are denying yourself that unity of experience so much of the time and recognizing that that's, you know, it's, it's based on a, a misperception of, of the way consciousness always already is.

0 (57m 32s):
Well, if there wasn't an incentive to learn how to meditate properly, that was one, and I've been meditating f a fair amount since I was in my teens. But more along the lines of just paying attention to breath and, you know, recognize thought sort of observer, open observer type meditation, right? Or focused attention, I would suppose more of the focused attention type. We'll get into these a little bit later, but I have a number of questions related to what you just said. Sure. I love the idea that this thing that we would all do well to understand, to observe consciousness itself, as opposed to trying to alter the contents of consciousness, may sit much closer to us than one might think, Hmm.

0 (58m 22s):
That it, and that because it sits so close to us, that that might be one of the reasons why we miss it. Yeah. I, I go right to a visual system example. I mean, if you don't, if you're wearing corrective lenses and there's a spec on your lens, you know, typically you're looking out through the lens. And so you wouldn't observe that spec. Any number of different analogies could work here. The, the fact that there are states, however few positive and negative ecstasy, extreme ecstasy, and extreme fear being the, the two, I think most obvious ones that seems like we agree on that allow us to capture the sense of completeness of self or the, the unity of the, the observer and the, and the actor.

0 (59m 5s):
The fact that those are, are seldom for the non-trained, for the non meditator suggests to me two things. I think one, perhaps worth exploring more than the other, but one is that what's really being revealed in the states where we can feel the unity of the observer and the actor is understanding something fundamental about the algorithm that, not the online algorithm, but the algorithm that is our nervous system, just as a, you mentioned cephalopods, I mean, manta, shrimp, sea, an enormous array of color hues that we don't, right? They're map, they're maps and representations of the world are fundamentally different. Pit viper, see, in the infrared, right, we're restricted to somewhat of a limited range within the color spectrum, but still more vast than that of dogs or cats.

0 (59m 49s):
Okay? So understanding that, for seeing what a pit viper can see for moments would be informative. Perhaps sensing heat emissions as a human might be invasive, and maybe that's why we don't do it. So the question is to just make it straightforward is why would the system be designed this way? Again, neither of us were consulted the design phase, but that brings me to perhaps the more tractable question was, which is about development. I mean, I'm a great believer that the neural circuits that encouraged healthy parent-child relations or unhealthy parent-child relations as the case may be in childhood stem from the initial demands of internal versus external states, which is exactly what we're talking about, which is that a, a young child feels anxious because it needs its diaper change.

0 (1h 0m 41s):
This doesn't really know it needs its diaper change, or it's cold, or it's uncomfortable, or it's hungry, or it's overly full. And so it vocalizes and then some external source comes to us and relieves that hopefully. Yeah. Right? And so the fundamental rule that we first learn is not that we have a self or that things fall down, not up, but is that when uncomfortable externalize that discomfort and yeah, it will be relieved by an outside player. And then of course there's a repurposing of that circuitry for adult romantic attachments. I don't think anyone doubts that. And that can explain a lot indeed, about attachment and so forth. So something about our developmental wiring and the algorithms that these neural circuits run tend to bias.

0 (1h 1m 25s):
Most people, the non-practice meditators to l live a somewhat functional life, at least without this awareness of actor and observer. Right? And so what you're really talking about is a, a deliberate intervention to understand and resolve that gap in the algorithm. Is that, do I have that right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm, I'm more or less restating what you said in a way that I'm, I'm hoping will serve as a jumping off point as to, you know, why questions are always very dangerous in biology or any Yeah. You know, and or in relationship. Yeah. What's that? Or in relationship. Or in relationship. Right, exactly.

0 (1h 2m 5s):
Although I think it all does really harken back to this early developmental wiring, which of course is modifiable. That's the, that's the beauty of, of the, the nervous system is it's the one organ that seems to be able to change itself, at least to some degree. Right. So what are your thoughts about the organization of the circuitry to, to essentially under normal conditions, to not reveal, it's what seems to be one of its more important and profound and for, you know, dare I say, enlightening features, right? Yeah. It's almost as if we are potentially like Manish shrimp. We can see so many more colors than we actually see, and yet we don't, we, we sort of opt, most people opt not to.

0 (1h 2m 47s):
And I would argue that one of the great strengths of the Waking Up app, for instance, that it, it essentially walks you through the process of being able to arrive at the, at these things without having to go do one year or three year long silent meditation retreats. Yeah. Yeah. So if you could just elaborate for a moment before we move on about, you know, what are your thoughts about how the circuitry is arranged by default versus the, the, and, and what that means for there to be an, an intervention that we have to intervene in the self in order to reveal the self?

2 (1h 3m 19s):
Well, so the two big questions there, one about evolution, one about development. So with respect to evolution, I mean, it's important to recognize that evolution doesn't see our deepest concerns about human flourishing and human wellbeing. You know,

0 (1h 3m 36s):
It's all about the obstacle.

2 (1h 3m 37s):
It is just, you know, you, we are set up to spawn and to survive long enough to, to help our progeny spawn if we can do that, and that, and that, that's it, right? And so anything that was good for that, including, you know, tribalism and xenophobia and, you know, you know, all kinds of hardware and software flaws that are, that are revealed themselves to be flaws in the present time when we're trying to build a viable global civilization. But, you know, they, they re redo it to the advantage of our ancestors somehow. Or they just, there's, there are things about us that we're simply not selected for.

2 (1h 4m 17s):
They just kind of came along for the ride. You know, they, you know what Stephen J. Gould called a spandrel, you know? So we are not set up by evolution to be as happy as we possibly can be, and certainly, and and to do almost anything that interests us. Well, I mean, we're not set up by evolution to be mathematicians or musicians or to, to create democracies that are healthy. I mean, evolution can see none of this. And we are doing these things based on cognitive and emotional hardware that we are leveraging in new directions, right?

2 (1h 4m 58s):
I mean, we have, we are primates and we are, you know, we're communicating with, you know, small mouth noises. I mean, we're language using primates, and all of that has clearly evolved, and we're doing these amazing things, including science, you know, however, improbably we're, we're actually able to, to, you know, almost entirely with language understand reality that at, at, at a scale that exceeds us in both directions. I mean, the, the very, the very vast and the very small. And, and you know, also temporarily the very old, we have, you know, visions of the far future we can figure out, you know, where an, you know, an asteroid is gonna, you know, cross earth's orbit a thousand years from now, if we just do the math.

2 (1h 5m 41s):
And it's amazing that we can do all of those things, but evolution is blind to all of that, right? And so we have, in terms of what we care about, and certainly in terms of what we, what's gonna ensure our survival as a species, we have flown the perch that was created for us by evolution. I mean, we're just not, it's not just the primate things. And so, so it is with learning how to regulate our emotions and, and, you know, punch through to a self-concept or beyond a self-concept that is more normative psychologically that allows us to, you know, not be terrorized by our aish genes as fully as we seem to be, even in the presence of more and more destructive technology that, I mean, like, like, you know, we're, we're still practically chimpanzees armed with nuclear weapons, right?

2 (1h 6m 32s):
I mean, and that is, you know, increasingly dysfunctional. And very soon we're gonna be in the presence of minds or apparent minds that we have built, you know, that are as intelligent as we are, or, and very quickly, you know, probably 15 minutes after that, far more intelligent than we are. And so what we do with all of that is, again, something that we have to figure out based on the minds we have, the minds we can build, the minds we can change, you know, we can, we can metal with our own genomes now and, and that will produce its own consequences, you know, in our, in ourselves and in future generations if we've met with the germline.

2 (1h 7m 12s):
And again, all of that is just, you know, you know, evolution is just sort of the womb we came out of, but it's not, it didn't anticipate any of that, right? So it, so the, you know, mother nature has, has simply not had our best interests at heart, right? And it's, we might die off. And, and from the point of view of mother nature, that's, that's fine because 99% of, of every species dies off, you know, so there's that. But, but when you're talking, when you're talking about the, the individual developmentally, so, you know, we all come into this world again as a, as a fairly hairless primate that needs a tremendous amount of care by others.

2 (1h 7m 53s):
And the logic of that is that, you know, you know, the reason why we're not a, a gazelle that can, you know, run, you know, 45 minutes later and then basically do all the gazelle things perfectly soon thereafter. The reason why we have, you know, we have this, this time of, of immaturity and that becomes, has become functional for us, is that it is just, we we're, we're far more flexible and we can learn based on the needs of, of an environment to do a, you know, so much more than a gazelle can. And language is a part of that. And, you know, in the last 10,000 years or so, culture increasingly has been more and more a part of that.

2 (1h 8m 41s):
And there's probably a layer at which we can plausibly talk about cultural evolution, you know, and cultural evolution interacting with biological evolution to, to changes. But when you're talking about the development of an individual, each of us comes into this world, I think not recognizing ourselves in any, in any sense that would make sense to, to reify. I mean, it's not that there's nothing there. I mean, there could be some kind of proto self differentiation, but I think it's, it takes a, it takes a long while. And there is pro very likely a coincidence between really recognizing, recognizing others.

2 (1h 9m 23s):
We recognize others first. I mean, we're certainly in relationship immediately, and we orient to human faces and, and we, you know, even detect other humans as good and bad moral actors very early. I mean, certainly long before we recognize ourselves in, in a mirror, we, the experiments run, again, this is Paul Bloom and, and colleagues experiments run on kind of the moral hardware and software of, of developing toddlers. But I think at this point, they've pushed it down all the way to like six months of, of age where you'll get these infants staring at kind of a puppet show, and they'll, they'll show a, an a, a greater interest in, you know, in a classically good actors versus bad actors, you know, cooperators versus, you know, defectors in various, you know, puppet show games.

2 (1h 10m 15s):
So there's, it's not that we have no mind and no proto awareness of others and, and of self, but what eventually happens, certainly as we become at all facile with, with language use, is that we become aware that, that not only are we in relationship to others, but we are an object in the world for them, right? So that like we have enough people pointing at us in our cribs, right? And impinging upon our experience, right? You know, that you, you're, you're being physically moved and prodded and touched and consoled or not consoled, and just imagine what all of these, you're, you're on the receiving end of 10,000 interventions, right?

2 (1h 11m 1s):
And you're completely helpless for the longest time. And all of that attention you have all of these people coming up, you know, to the crib and, and making faces at you cheering, cheer, you know, and yeah. And, and it's all pointed at you, right? So there's a, you know, there, there's a, a classic magical na narcissism that, that gets constructed there if you, if you take the psychological literature or you, you know, at least a certain strand of it, seriously. And I think it's, it's largely apt to, to think of, of a child at that age as a ki a kind of, there is a kind of narcissistic structure there where it's, it's, it's all kind of going inward.

2 (1h 11m 44s):
And at a certain point you realize, okay, I'm, I'm the center of all of this, right? Like, it's not just, it's not just a, a, a movie that you're, that you're, you're, you know, where you're, that you're completely absorbed in and you've lost your sense of self. I mean, this is to, to talk to yet another example of, of what it's like as a grownup to lose our sense of self. And one of the things I think we find so fascinating by about television and, and, and film is that when we get totally absorbed in it, we're in this very unusual circumstance where we're, you know, our brain is basically reading it as we're in a, in the classic social circumstance, we're presented with, with, you know, the, the, the facial displays of other people.

2 (1h 12m 28s):
In fact, you know, we can get some of the, sometimes these people are 10 feet tall, right? Or their faces are 10 feet tall. You have a close up in a movie theater. So it's like this super stimulus in terms of, of, of evolution. And they could make it, they could be making direct eye contact with a camera, right? So you have this gigantic face staring at you, and yet you're totally uni uncomplicated, socially you can't be seen and you, and something about that you, you know, you can't be seen. And so you're completely, you completely lose self-consciousness, and yet you're, you're able to examine with completely free attention again, cuz you're totally uni uncomplicated. The, the, the facial minutia and the mimetic facial play of people from at a very close range.

2 (1h 13m 13s):
I mean, you're seeing people clo I mean, you'd have to be, you know, physically just, you know, about to kiss your, your, your spouse. Like that's what a closeup is in a film, right? Like that you never get that close to people, right? And yet here you're in a situation where you're unobserved and you know that, and so, I mean, this is a bit of a tangent, but the, it's, it's the other side of what's happening developmentally for a kid. When you're in a movie theater watching a movie, you are truly invisible. And yet you are right there seeing, you know, the however harrowing the human drama is, you're seeing it play out, and you're seeing it, you're, you're seeing it up close. And it is a, it is in principle, a social encounter that your genes are ready for, but they're not ready for you to be invisible.

2 (1h 13m 59s):
Right? And so that's what's so magical about it. But what happens developmentally for a kid is that you're not invisible. You are an object that is constantly being, being overrun the boundaries of your, you know, you know, your, your sensory engagement with the world are constantly being impinged upon by others. And at a certain point you recognize, okay, I am at the center of this. And the, and the way this gets enshrined as a self, I think is probably coincident with our learning the language game. We, we learn to play with others. We're we're talking to others, people are talking to us, and at a certain point, we're talking to ourselves even when the other people leave the room, right?

2 (1h 14m 45s):
So, and you can hear if you ever have been with a toddler, when they're, when they're, when they're externalizing their self-talk, you know, you hear them talking to themselves, they're playing, and they're, and they're, they're having a conversation. They, they were talking to you, the parent, but then you left the room and, and they're still talking. You come back in, then they're still, they're still talking, right? And what happens to us strangely, and this comes back to the logic of evolution, we never stop because evolution never thought to build us an off switch for this, right? I mean, the language is so useful and it gets tuned up so strongly for us.

2 (1h 15m 24s):
And there was never a reason to shut it off, right? There was never a reason to give you this ability to say, oh, I, it wouldn't be nice to have four hours of quiet now. Like, no self-talk. And so for most of us, I mean, I think there are people who, for whatever neurological reason or, you know, idiosyncratic reason, undoubtedly there's, there'd be a neurological reason for it. Don't have any self-talk. But for the, for most of us, we are covertly talking basically all the time. And, and there's an i masistic component of, of this. For many people, you're, you're visualizing things as well, but there's just a lot, a ton of white noise in the mind that feels a certain way.

2 (1h 16m 7s):
And you know, what I, what you discover in meditation ultimately is that the self is what it feels like to be thinking without knowing that you're thinking, right? A a thought arises uninspected and seems to just become you, right? So, like you and I are talking now, and you say you're, you know, people are listening to us. They're, they're struggling to follow the train of this conversation because it is competing with their, the conversation that's happening in their heads, right? So they, I'll be saying something, and a person listening will say, well, what does that mean? Or like, oh boy, wait a minute. He just contradicted himself. Or like, you're, and there's a voice in your head that is also vying for your attention much of the time.

2 (1h 16m 50s):
And so it's, you know, the, the first discovery people make in meditation is that it's just so hard to pay attention to anything, the breath, or a mantra or a sound, whatever it is, because you're thinking every, you're thinking about the thing you need to do in an hour. And oh, it's so good that I, I downloaded this app. I'm like, this is really good. This is gonna be good for me. But, and you're, but you're, that, that chatter isn't showing up. You, you're not far back enough in the, in the kind of the theater of consciousness so as to see it emerge. It's, it is just sneaking up behind you and it feels like me again. Right? It feels like when someone is thinking the thought, well, what the hell does that mean?

2 (1h 17m 32s):
Right? They're not seeing it as an emerging object in consciousness. It just feels like me. It just feels that, that that's it. Is it the, the, you know, subjectively, it's like the mind contracts around this appearance in consciousness, and it really is just, it is just a, you know, it's just a sound with the voice of the mind. If you actually can inspect it, it is, it is deeply inscrutable that we ever feel identified with our thoughts. I mean, how is it that we could be a thought? These thoughts, a thought just arises and passes away. And when you inspect it, when you go to inspect it, it's, it, you know, it unravels. It's, it's just, it's, it's, it's the least substantial possible thing.

2 (1h 18m 16s):
And it, and it could, but yet it could be a thought of self-hatred. You know, it could be a th a thought that that unrecognized totally defines your, your mood. You know, it's like, I mean, just again, this, this, this all can seem kind of abstract, but,

0 (1h 18m 35s):
Well, no, but I, I, but I think it, it's extremely concrete from the perspective of the neural circuits that we'll return to in maybe in a few minutes.

Inside Tracker (1h 18m 42s):
I'd like to take a brief break and thank our sponsor Inside Tracker. Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and d n a to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. The problem with a lot of blood and DNA tests out there, however, is that you get data back about metabolic factors, lipids, and hormones and so forth, but you don't know what to do with those data. Inside Tracker solves that problem and makes it very easy for you to understand what sorts of nutritional, behavioral, maybe even supplementation based interventions you might want to take on in order to adjust the numbers of those metabolic factors, hormones, lipids, and other things that impact your immediate and long-term health to bring those numbers into the ranges that are appropriate and indeed optimal for you. If you'd like to try inside Tracker, you can visit inside tracker.com/huberman and get 20% off any of inside tracker's plans. That's inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off.

2 (1h 19m 47s):
If you could elaborate a bit on this notion of internal chatter and external stimuli and the bridge between them. Cuz that's, I I think that for some people that might be in intuitive. I think for others it's not so obvious that language is ongoing in the backdrop. Yeah. Because sometimes I think some people are more tuned into that language. For some people it's, it's louder volume for some people, it's more structured.

0 (1h 20m 20s):
I have a colleague at, at Stanford who's been on this podcast called er, who's like one of the preem like bioengineers. He is also psychiatrists, and he has a med, he doesn't call it a meditative practice. He has a practice where each evening after his five kids are put down to sleep, you know, yeah. They're older now, but, and in the quiet of the, the late hours of the night, early morning, he sits and forces himself to think in complete sentences with punctuation for an hour. Hmm. This is the way that he has taught himself to structure his thinking, right? Because of the very fact that you're describing, which is that ordinarily there is an underlying structure to what's internal, but it's disrupted by external events. And it's, and these are typically, it's not coherent enough to really make meaning from, so it's almost like somebody sitting down to write in complete sentences, right?

0 (1h 21m 8s):
But forcing himself to do it in his head. But for many people, I'll, including myself, that's a, that's a foreign experience, and we only experience structure through our interactions with the world and other people that if I were, I've taken the time to try and explore ideas with eyes closed. And, you know, and I've been able to do that. There are certain pharmacologic states that we could talk about that facilitate that and know those are not amphetamines. Those do exactly the opposite, by the way. But I think people exist in varying degrees of structured and, and unstructured internal dialogue and in, in varying depths of recognition of that internal dialogue.

0 (1h 21m 50s):
Right? And so the question I suppose is, is just the recognition that there's an a dialogue ongoing internally, is that itself valuable?

2 (1h 21m 58s):
Yeah. And that, that also can take some time. So, so I mean, so here, here's a claim I would make that some people might find surprising, but I, I think this is an objectively true claim about the subjectivity of most people, which is that unless you, you know, have a fair amount of training, unless you just happen to be some kind of savant in this area, which, you know, most people by definition aren't, or you have a remarkable amount of training in what's called, you know, concentration practice in, in meditation. I, I believe this is a, a true claim that, you know, if we just put a, you know, a stopwatch on this table and, and, you know, people could just watch it, you know, 30 seconds elapse, and I set, you know, I set all of our listeners or your viewers the task for the next 30 seconds, just pay attention to anything.

2 (1h 22m 52s):
Your breath, you know, or you know, the, the side of your hand or the side of the clock, or any object without getting lost in thought, without getting momentarily distracted by this conversation you're having with yourself. This couple things would happen. One is no one would be able to do it, right? And, and, and not just, this is not just a, a superficial inability. I mean, if your life depended on it, you wouldn't be able to do it. I mean, if, if the fate of civilization depended on it, none of none of our listeners would be able to do this. And yet some percentage of them are, are so distracted by thought that they would think that they will actually try this experiment and think they succeeded, right?

2 (1h 23m 40s):
And for these people, what what happens is you put them on a meditation retreat and you have them spend 12 hours a day in silence doing nothing but this, right? So the practice is just pay attention to the breath when they're sitting. And then eventually, you know, you incorporate everything sounds and other sensations, and then you interleave that with walking meditation where they're paying attention just to the sensations of lifting and moving and placing their feet. And then, you know, once the practice is going, you, you incorporate sounds and sights and everything, but, so you can pay attention to everything. But the goal is for every moment you are going to, you are going to cultivate the what this, this faculty of mind, which, you know, increasingly is known as mindfulness, right? So, and mindfulness is nothing other than this very careful attention to the contents of consciousness.

2 (1h 24m 27s):
But the crucial piece is, it is not a moment of being lost in thought, right? You're not, you, you, you're not blocking thoughts, thoughts themselves can arise. But in those moments of being truly mindful, you're noticing thoughts as thoughts, whether they're, whether it's language in the mind or images, you're noticing those two as spontaneous appearances and consciousness. So if, if most people, you know, certainly anyone who thinks they can pay attention to, you know, to who they can do the experiment successfully that I just suggested, pay attention to something for 30 seconds without being lost and thought you put those people on a meditation retreat, what they're going to experience is, you know, on the first day they're gonna feel like, oh yeah, I was, you know, I was with the breath, or I was walk, you know, I was with the sensations of walking, and I'd be there for like five minutes, you know, solid.

2 (1h 25m 19s):
And then I would get lost in thought. Then I'd come back and then, you know, five more minutes I'd be lost in thought and then get back. But as the days progressed, you know, even, you know, 10 days into a silent meditation retreat, they're going to experience more and more distraction. They're gonna, it's gonna seem like, okay, wait a minute. Now I can't pay attention to anything for more than five seconds. Right? Like, that is progress, right? Because, because what they're discovering is just how distractable they are, right? And, you know, so some p for some people that will be immediately obvious. For some people, it'll, it'll actually take a, a lot of practice to realize just how distracted they're

0 (1h 25m 58s):
What you just said, which was that at some point we can start noticing our thoughts. I can notice my thoughts, but what you're talking about is, as a goal state is not, is not being distracted by thoughts, but actually seeing the relationship between thoughts, self and other types of perceptions. And here I think recognizing and seeing thoughts is a form of perception. It's just an in directed perception. This raises a, a topic that I'm also obsessed by, which I think neuroscience can somewhat explain, but still incomplete in completely.

0 (1h 26m 38s):
That the, the circuits and mechanics, et cetera, are not yet known, which is about time perception. And you know, it, a simple analogy would be that there are a lot of small objects flying around in the space that we happen to be having this discussion, but they're moving so fast that I can't perceive them, or they're entirely stationary, so I can't perceive them because of the reasons we talked about before in the visual system, right? My eyes are moving in perfect concert with these, with these small object movements, and therefore they're bl they're, I am blind to them,

2 (1h 27m 12s):
Right?

0 (1h 27m 14s):
A slight shift in time perception. Think of this perhaps as a change in the frame rate, right? Camera frame rates, faster frame rate, you can capture slow motion, slower frame rate, you're gonna get more of a strobe type effect if the frame rate is low enough, right? Right. Could it be that our time perception is not one thing, but we have one rate of perceiving time for external objects at a given distance, which we know is true. Another frame rate for objects that are up close, we know this to be true, even if those objects are moving at the exact same speed, right? I mean, this would be the sitting on a train, the rungs on the fence seem to be going by very, very fast, but the ones in the distance seem to be moving slowly, right?

0 (1h 27m 56s):
This is the way the, the visual system and time perception interconnect at some level. You're up on a skyscraper, the little ants of cars and people down below, you know, they're moving much faster than you perceive them to move. Yeah. But it's the, it's a distance effect.

2 (1h 28m 11s):
I mean, you see, you see a plane, it's could be going 300 miles an hour. Exactly.

0 (1h 28m 14s):
Yeah. And it's not because of the lack of resolution, the re lack of resolution is incidental. We know this because in animals such as hawks that have twice the degree of acuity, as far as we know, they have the same distance associated shifts in time perception. Hmm. So could it be that we are running multiple streams of time perception, multiple cones of attention that include cones of attention to our thoughts, and that somehow through meditation we start to align the frame rate for these different streams of attention so that they all fall into the same, they all fall into the same movie, if you will, although it's not just a movie with visual content. What I'm doing here is clearly I'm becoming a lumper rather than a splitter.

0 (1h 28m 56s):
I'm sure this violates certain rules of time perception, neural circuitry, but I'm not sure that it's entirely untrue either. And does it survive at all as a possible model for what you're describing? And if the answer is no, I'm perfectly comfortable with that.

2 (1h 29m 12s):
Well, it's a, it it's dependent on what you mean by meditation. This, this is where you sort of the particularities of, of what one is doing with one's attention under the, you know, the, the frame of meditation really matter because there, there are ways to practice where practice mindfulness in particular, where the frame rate really does seem to go way, way up, right? And there, there's actually been some research done on this where you take people, you know, before and after a three month silent meditation retreat and you give them some kind of visual dis discrimination task where they have to like detect, I think they used it to, to, to kiss aScope.

2 (1h 29m 54s):
Is that the tool for, there's some, some something that presents, you know, like very quick pulses of light. And in any case, you can, you can discriminate just in any, in any sensory channel, I would imagine you can make finer grain discriminations if you're practicing mindfulness in a very specific way, which is to be making these fine grain discriminations more and more and do, do nothing else for, you know, three months, which is, which is a way of practicing. So you're, so the classic, you know, mindfulness practice in, in what's called vipasana meditation, is to pay scrupulous attention to seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, touching in a way that breaks everything down into the, this kind of microscopic sensory moments.

2 (1h 30m 45s):
So, you know, you are rather than feel your, you know, your hands pressing together, what you're trying to feel with your attention and you're feeling more and more is all of the micro sensations of pressure and temperature and movement such that the feeling of hands completely disappears. You realize that a hand is a concept and all you have is this cloud of, of punctate and, and very brief sensations. And so, so anything you think you, you, you have as a datum of experience, as you, as you bore into it with your attention, it, it resolves into a, a, this kind of di diaphanous cloud of changing sensation.

2 (1h 31m 30s):
And that can be even, even something as, as captivating as like a, you know, a serious pain in your body. I mean, you could have like a, you know, you could have injured your neck, you know, and you have some excruciating pain in your neck if you just are willing to pay attention to it, you know, and just pay a hundred percent attention to it. Your, a couple things happen. One is your resistance to feeling, it goes away by definition cuz you're now, your goal is to just pay attention to it. And, and, and you recognize that so much of the suffering associated with the pain was born of a, of the resistance to feeling it. You're kinda, you're bracing against it and all of your thinking about it, you know, you're thinking like, well, what, you know, why did I do this to myself?

2 (1h 32m 10s):
Or why should I see an orthopedist? Or why, how long is this gonna last? And, and you're, you know, maybe I herniated a disc. Like all of that self-talk is producing anxiety. And, you know, I'm not saying there's never anything to think about there, but you know, either you can do something about it in the moment or you can't. And so much of our suffering in, in the presence of pain is the result of resisting it. Worrying about it think is just all of the, everything we are doing with our minds, but just, just feeling it, right? So when you just feel it again, it, it, it breaks apart into this, this ever cha ever shifting collection of, of different sensations.

2 (1h 32m 52s):
And it's not one thing and it never stays the same. And it's, and so there's two things happen there. One is there can be a tremendous, tremendous amount of relief that happens there where you, you, you, you can achieve a level of equanimity even in the presence of really unpleasant, you know, physical sensation. And this is true of mental sensation as well. This is true of emotions, you know, the classically negative emotions like anger, depression, or, you know, fear. The moment you become willing to just feel them in all of their, you know, punctate and changeable qualities, they cease to be what they, they were a moment ago. They're just, they're, and they, when you're talking about emotional states, they cease to map back onto you and your self-concept as meaningful in the same way.

2 (1h 33m 41s):
So that suddenly, you know, the anxiety you feel, let's say, before going out on stage to give a talk, you know, a moment ago it, it, it was, it had psychological meaning. It felt like, oh, you know, okay, I'm anxious. How do I get rid of this? You know, why am I this sort of person, what, you know, should I have taken a beta blocker? You know, this is the, the conversation you're, you're having with yourself. The moment you just become willing to feel it as the pure energy of, you know, the physiology of, of you know of cortisol release, it ceases to have any meaning. It just, it, it, it ceases to be a problem in that moment because it is no more, it no more maps onto the kind of person you are, than a feeling of indigestion or a pain and your, and your knee maps onto the kind of person you are.

2 (1h 34m 25s):
It's just, it, it's, it's just sensation. Anyway, but back to the main point here, which is that if you train your attention in this way to notice the particularities of, of sensory experience and emotional experience, like you're looking for the atoms of experience, you know, you get better and better at that and certain things happen. But one thing that, one thing that I, I really do do think happens is there's a kind of frame rate change in, in the, the data stream where you really are just, you're just noticing much, much more. All of that is an very interesting way of training.

2 (1h 35m 5s):
It's not what I tend to recommend. Now, it's a great preliminary practice for what I do recommend, because it gives you, it really teaches you the difference between being lost and thought and not, it really teaches you what mindfulness is. But it tends to be done, you know, by, you know, 99.9% of of people in a dualistic way, which you're, again, you're, you're, you're set up to think, okay, I'm over here as the locus of attention, you know, and I'm continually getting distracted by thought. And the project is to not do that anymore and actually pay attention to the breath and sounds and sensations. And, and every time I get lost in thought, I'm gonna go back here.

2 (1h 35m 47s):
But this whole dance of I'm lost in thought, now I'm, now I'm strategically directing my attention again, all of this seems to ramify this sense of self, the sense of, of there, there's one to be doing this. There's, there's somebody holding the spotlight of attention and getting better at coming back to the object of meditation again, it's inevitable that 99.9% of people are gonna start there and stay there for some considerable period of time. But the thing I like to do when I talk about all of this is undercut the false assumptions that are anchoring all of that as early as possible.

2 (1h 36m 27s):
Because where, where, where I think you wanna be is recognizing that there is no place from which to aim attention right there. This whole dualistic setup of subject and object is the thing that is already not there. And it's not that you, it's not that it's there and you meditated out of existence successfully. It's really not there. And if you, if you learn how to look for it, you can see that it's not there and feel that it's not there and it no longer seems to be there. Right? It's like it's, it's not, and it becomes like, again, like a bi-stable percep where you looked at it long enough and you thought, okay, now I see the vase and the face and I can't unsee it.

2 (1h 37m 8s):
And every time I look, it's, it's there again. Right? And so, yeah, I mean, so to come back to the, the example you gave with your, your colleague at Stanford, whose book I know I have, I haven't read it. Is this is the, he wrote a book projections, right? Desia? Yeah. So it's, it's on my stack to read, but it's the opposite what I'm recommending, essentially the opposite end of the continuum of the sort of internal exercise he was, he was, he was doing so rather than, so, you know, he's doing something very deliberate and controlled, and he is, you know, he is deliberately thinking in complete sentences and kind of commandeering the, you know, the, the, the machinery of thought and attention in a way that I would imagine, I mean, I'd be interested to talk to him about it, but I would imagine it, he really feels like he's doing that right?

2 (1h 38m 7s):
And there's, there's,

0 (1h 38m 7s):
Well, he's an engineer, it's a, you know, it's a, as you describe it in this way, it, it reminds me, he's, he's, he's a physician, but he's also an engineer. So it's really about taking the, the raw materials of thought and engineering something structured from it, right? I think, right. You know, I haven't been in Carl's mind.

2 (1h 38m 24s):
Yeah. But if we got him talking on that, we would, I'm sure we would get a sense of

0 (1h 38m 28s):
What it is. We'll do that conversation at some point. But the exact opposite of what you're saying,

2 (1h 38m 33s):
The exact opposite would be to recognize that the sense of control is a total illusion right there. It could, because you don't know what you're going to think next. Right? And even he in the most laborious way, I mean, he could, he could just get as muscular as he wants with it. He still doesn't know what he's going to think next, right? Thought because thoughts simply arise, right? Like, you know, I mean, you know, you can run this experiment for yourself, and this connects up to the topic of, of free will, which we might want to touch. But I mean, just think of any category of thing. You know, if I asked you to think of, you know, the names of cities or of, you know, friends you have or of famous people, you, you can, you know, remember exist or think of nouns or you know, you know anything and just watch what comes percolating into consciousness right now, there's, there are things you can't think of, or there are things you don't know the name of.

2 (1h 39m 35s):
You know, there are languages you don't speak. There's, there are famous people you've never seen or never heard of, right? And so like the, like, so you have no control over that part. Like those, those names and, and faces are not going to suddenly come streaming into consciousness, but of, of the, the totality of facts and figures and faces and names that you do know, right? Only some will come vine for inclusion, right? And they're not, and there's, there's a sort of, you know, I'm sure we could make guess, and we know something about the neurology of this, but we, you know, depending on what channel your, your, you're waiting for thoughts in, I mean, it's gonna be different if it's visual or semantic or, or episodic memory.

2 (1h 40m 18s):
I mean, all of these things are different, but wherever you kind of point your inner gaze of attention and wait for the next face or name, certain things are gonna come and certain aren't, certain things aren't going to come and how you land on one, right? There'll be this process. If you're paying attention, you might think we'll say, we'll say we go with names of cities, right? You just, so you'll, you'll think of Paris, you'll think of London, you'll think of Rome, you'll think of, of Sedona. You'll think like, so these, these names will come. And if I ask you to just say one, right? So just

0 (1h 40m 54s):
Minneapolis is what came to mind for me. It was very straightforward. It was Minneapolis, the famous person was Joe Strummer. And they just like, I can give you reasons why I think they, those came to mind recent conversations.

2 (1h 41m 4s):
Okay? So, so, so whatever. So we know, we know a fair bit of a fair bit about much of this. So one, we know that your reasons, you know, obviously could be right or wrong, they're very likely to be wrong because we have this sort of confabulatory storytelling mechanism even in an intact brain where we just, you know, we, we, we seem to never lack for the reasons why something came to mind. And we know, we can know, we can manipulate people in ways that prove that people are just reliably wrong and confident, you know, confidently. So about the reasons why they thought of things or did things, but leaving that aside, even if you're completely accurate, right? There are, there are people's names who you know, and cities' names that you know, that inexplicably just didn't come to mind.

2 (1h 41m 49s):
And if we ran this experiment again and again, again, they, they wouldn't come to mind if your brain was in precisely the state it was in a moment ago. If we, if we, if we could return your brain to the state it was in a moment ago correcting for, you know, all the deterministic changes and all the random changes that would have to, you know, be corrected for it. Just get all the synapses and the synaptic weights and you know, everything in, in the, the state it was in to produce Joe Strummer in Minneapolis, right? You are going to, if we rewind that movie that you know, that part of the movie of your life, you are going to say Joe Strummer in Minneapolis a trillion times in a row, right? So this is why in my view, the notion of free will makes absolutely no sense, right? And you can add as much randomness to that process as you want.

2 (1h 42m 30s):
It still doesn't get you the freedom people think they have. There's another conversation to have about, you know, why none of that matters and why things only get better once you admit to yourself that free will is an illusion. And yes, you can get in shape and you can diet and you can do all the things you want to do. And, and you don't have to think about free will. But the, from a, from a contemplative meditative point of view, the thing to notice is that everything is just springing into view, right? You're like, there's no place from which you are authoring your next thought because you would have to think it before you think it, right? Like, like, like there is just, there is just this fundamental mystery at our backs that is disgorging everything that we experience.

2 (1h 43m 14s):
What

0 (1h 43m 14s):
If, what if I'm speaking? So if I'm talking about something and I have some command of that information, I can often sense what I'm gonna say next and then find myself saying it. Hopefully. That's what I saying, not something else. I certainly said things I didn't intend to say or never thought I would say in life, but when engaged in speech or action, it at least gives us the illusion. I think that we somehow have more command over our thoughts.

2 (1h 43m 41s):
Yeah, well, you have a script. I mean, it's like, there, there are things you know a lot about and you've talked a you, you've talked about them a lot. And you, you know, you have the things you want to say about, about those things and the things you, you, you don't wanna say, or you, you wouldn't wanna say. And you know, you can, you know, it still is a bit of a high-wire act because you can misspeak or you can fail to get to the end of a sentence in a grammatically correct way. And, and it's again, all of this subjectively, this whole process is mysterious to you, right? Like you, you don't know how you follow the rules of English grammar, right? Like the, like one bit, your tongue is doing it somehow and you know, and when it fails, it fails and you're just as surprised as the next guy that it failed.

2 (1h 44m 24s):
And, you know, you mispronounce a word and okay, I don't know what happened there, but it's, if it keeps happening, I'm gonna worry. I had a stroke and you know, if it stops, I'm, I'm, I'm gonna be, you know, I'm not gonna worry about it. So it's still mysterious even when you're doing it in a very rote, deliberative and re repetitive way. But when, when you're talking about something you've talked about a lot and you know, you sort of know where you're gonna go, right? Like, and, and this is, you know, we, we have many conversations like this. It is somewhat analogous to like a golf swing where it's like, you know how you want to do it.

2 (1h 45m 5s):
There's gonna be all kinds of errors that are gonna creep into your execution of it in, in real time. But there's like, you, you basically have a pattern. And so you, you, you have certain linguistic patterns which you're following. Again, none of this is a proof of, of free will, but I will grant you that, you know, phenomenologically it, it, it feels different than just waiting for the next thought to come. But my point is, is that even if you are, I mean, you can trim it down to the simplest possible thing. Like you take two things you like to, to drink, right? You may, you like, you like coffee and you like tea, and you're deciding which to have, right?

2 (1h 45m 45s):
Both are on offer. You've got two cups in front of you. And, and the question is, you know, which, you know, here I've got water and I've got coffee, which am I gonna drink next? It's a, it's incredibly, it's the simplest possible decision. And no matter how long I make this decision process, I could literally sit for an hour trying to figure out which to reach for next. And I could have my reasons why, and I could have my, all my self talk. There's, there's, there's going to be a final change in me that's gonna be the proximate cause of me deciding one over the other. And that no matter how laborious I can make it seem in, in terms of my reasoning about it, it is gonna be fundamentally mysterious as to why I went with one rather than the other, right?

2 (1h 46m 35s):
Whatever story I have. Like, because it's like, it's, it's, it's still gonna be as mysterious as you thinking of Joe Strummer when you absolutely, like, you know, of the existence of Marilyn Monroe just as much, and yet she simply didn't occur to you, right? It's like, it's, it's fundamentally mysterious. Like there are people who are even more famous than Joe Strummer to you, right? Who, who, I mean, I I'm sure you, you know, you, he may be somebody who you have thought a lot about, but, but they're, they're people who like, if we could just inventory, you know, your conscious life going back the last 10 years, they're people who you've, you've thought about more than Joe Strummer, yet they didn't appear, right?

2 (1h 47m 16s):
So, and, and that's, that is mysterious, right? And they could have, but they didn't. And so, and what what what I'm saying is that this mystery never gets banished in our experience, whatever stories we have to tell about it. Like, because if, if the story is, oh, well I went for the water because I, you know, I I I think I've been drinking too much coffee. You know, I, I I I listened to Andrew Huber's podcast and he was saying, talking about caffeine, and I think I probably, it's

0 (1h 47m 44s):
Good for us, but you don't want to overdo it. Yeah, yeah,

2 (1h 47m 46s):
Yeah. Okay, so let's say that is actually the causal chain. Like, I listened to your podcast. You said something about caffeine. Now I'm, now I'm self-conscious about my coffee intake, right? But that's just, just adding a couple of links to the chain. There's, there's still this fundamental mystery of, well, why did I find that persuasive? And why w why did I find it persuasive now and not five minutes ago when I was drinking the coffee, right? Like, why did I just remember it now? Or why was it effective now? Like what? Like, you c you only have your experience in every moment is precisely what it is, and not one bit more like, and, and, and, and this subsumes even moments of real resolve and effort and, you know, picking yourself up by your bootstraps and changing everything.

2 (1h 48m 32s):
It's like you're on a diet and you're tempted eat chocolate and you think you're about to reach and you say, no, I'm not, I'm not breaking this diet. This diet is actually gonna stick. Right? Okay. Why did that arise in that moment and not at this analogous moment on your last diet, right? And why did it arise now to precisely, to the degree that it did? Why, why will it be as effective as it will be and have the half life that it will have and not, you know, 10% more or less? Like all of those are always mysterious to you. Well,

0 (1h 49m 6s):
Could we give a, as we did before, an evolutionary and a developmental explanation, an evolutionary explanation might be that directed attention in action is metabolically demanding. It would be inefficient or impossible for us to be in constant, you know, deliberate action and with access to all the relevant information as to why we would do anything. So our ideas literally spring to the surface at the last possible moment in order to offset the, the metabolic, the great metabolic requirements of having ideas that are, are related to goal-directed action, or that goal-directed action is expensive. That's one idea.

0 (1h 49m 46s):
The other idea would, would be, and we know this as a fact, which is that initially the brain is fairly crudely wired. That's not true within the neural circuits, the control, breathing, heart rate, et cetera. But within the neural circuits of sensory perception thought, et cetera, they're fairly crudely wired. And then across development, there's a progressive pruning back. And also in parallel to that, a strengthening of the connections that underlie directed action and thought. And here, I don't mean directed as in free will. I mean, just that, that can, I can decide to imagine an apple and imagine that apple, for instance, right? But your decision, there seems to be some maintenance of the, the random fine random wiring in systems.

0 (1h 50m 29s):
I mean, we've seen this even in, in worms, in flies, in, in, you know, in so-called lower invertebrates and lower vertebrates. And we see this in humans, and it seems to be that there's a lot of background, spontaneous activity. I mean, have some electrodes into the brains of humans, mechanics, carnivores, and mice. And in every case, most of what you hear is called hash. And it has nothing to do with hashish is just on the audio monitor, which is you're picking up a bunch of action potentials, right? As you hear, listening to a, a chorus of action potentials. But it's rare to find a neuron that faithfully fires to represent some sensory stimulus in the world. And you can arrange that marriage experimentally so that you can arrive at those strong signal to noise events.

0 (1h 51m 12s):
But I was always struck by how much noise there is in the system all around all the time. And people argue, is the noise really noise, et cetera. And is it, you know, there's still a lot of debate about that, but I can imagine that some of the, the spontaneous nature of thoughts just relates to the fact that there's a lot of background, spontaneous activity in the brain. Now, why that is, is a whole other discussion. But, but if I were to sort of set up two constraints that there's a lot of spontaneous activity, it's gonna generate random thoughts, thankfully not much random action, although there's a little bit of random action in our daily lives. And then against that, say, well, any deliberate thought or motion is going to be expensive, right? It's a metabolically expensive organ to begin with.

0 (1h 51m 54s):
And so you just have to, evolution has arrived at a place where spontaneously geering up of things upon which, like deliberate thoughts and action are superimposed. Is the best arrangement overall for this very metabolically demanding organ, is that, is that a, I mean, what I basically gave was just kind of a biological description of, of, of one, just one narrow aspect of it. But can we get comfortable with that? And the reason I say get comfortable is that, you know, I'm, and here I admittedly I'm forcing a little bit of a strip tease towards what I think I and everyone else wants to know, which is how to meditate and why in particular meditation convinces us that something doesn't necessarily have to be eliminated.

0 (1h 52m 33s):
But that was actually never there. I feel like we're, we're now set up of a sort of a, almost like a, you are not contradicting yourself by any means, but in my mind, there's a contradiction. And here's the contradiction. I love this statement that meditation over time or done properly reveals to us that we're actually not trying to make the gap between actor and observer go away. It was actually never there. To me, that's one of the more important statements that I perhaps have ever heard. And it inspires me to go further down this path of meditation, because I've never experienced that, right? Not deliberately, and certainly not through meditation. If I ever experienced it, it was transient enough that I, you know, I'm intrigued to, to experience it more.

0 (1h 53m 17s):
So, on the one hand, you're telling me something was never there, and there's a, a profound experience to be had by anyone that's willing to do the work to arrive at that experience of the loss of that illusion. On the other hand, I'm hearing that there's a, a profound gap that really does exist, which is that you, we, we believe that our thoughts are somehow from us, and indeed they're from in, in the cranial vault someplace, maybe in the body a bit as well, but that we over attribute the degree to which we are that, and that is us in a way that's volitional that we control.

0 (1h 54m 0s):
And so, once I'm hearing that there's something, there's an illusion that we can eliminate, and on the other hand, I'm hearing that there's an illusion that we can't eliminate. And maybe these are unrelated and I'm bridging them in a, in a, in a, in an unimportant way. That seems only important to me. But somehow I, I can't resolve these two. And maybe the thing to do then is, is can we separate them in terms of a practice to witness them that would allow us to resolve them separately?

2 (1h 54m 27s):
Right. So I think I, I'm hearing the problem. There's this, well, let me kind of bracket the whole free will discussion cuz it's, it's, it really is the flip side of this coin that, that I'm, you know, the obverse of which is the illusion, the illusion of the self.

0 (1h 54m 45s):
Okay? So at least I, it might be on the right track. They are the opposite sides of, of, of a coin. Yeah.

2 (1h 54m 50s):
Okay,

0 (1h 54m 50s):
Great. Because, so to me, they seem very different in, in, in essence.

2 (1h 54m 54s):
No, cuz because, because what I'm calling the sense of self and what people, what I think most people feel as their core sense of self is the this feeling of, I mean, it's, it's the feeling of being the locust of attention, but it's also the feeling of being the locus of agency. Like I can do the next thing I I like who's doing this? Who's reaching for the cup? I am right? I, I intended this and now I'm doing the thing. My and my intent, my conscious intention is the proximate cause of my reaching, right? So I'm the author, and so I'm the author of my thoughts and actions essentially, and I'm, and my, and my specific uses of attention, right? So I can, I can pay attention to the breath.

2 (1h 55m 35s):
I get lost in thought. I come back to the breath. But, you know, the law, the, the in on some level, the thoughts themselves are more, more of my doing something with, with almost a you knowOr intent, right? Like, I'm thinking like, you know, like, what the hell is this guy talking about? I'm, I know, I'm think, you know, I know, you know, who's thinking these thoughts? I am, right? Like that's, that's the person who really doesn't get what I'm saying is thinking something like that, right? It's like, what the fuck is this guy talking about? Like, I, like I know I'm here, I'm a self, I'm, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm a body, I'm a mind, I can reach for things that these are, these intentional actions are different from things that happen to me, right?

2 (1h 56m 17s):
A voluntary action is different from an involuntary one. You know? So having a tremor is different from consciously deciding to pick up a glass, right? So obviously everything I'm saying about meditation and the self and free will in order to be a sane picture of a human mind and of reality has to conserve the data of experience such that yes, I can acknowledge the difference between a tremor and a, a deliberative, you know, voluntary motor action. And, you know, and the things you do ally are different, not just psychologically and behaviorally, but they just have different implications for like they dif in a court of law, you know, you accidentally hit someone with your car or you did it on purpose.

2 (1h 57m 1s):
That's still a, a distinction that matters, right? It importantly, it tells us a lot about the global properties of your mind, such that, you know, we have a sense of what you're likely to do in the future. If you're someone who likes running over people with your car, you know, you're a a psychopath who we need to worry about. If you're someone who did it by accident, well then, you know, you may be culpable for, for the level of negligence that allow that to happen. But you're, you're a very different person and we, we, we treat you differently and we we're wise to. So anyway, we can, those are let's bracket all of that. There's this, I mean, there's some fundamental, there's there's some false assumptions about the underlying logic of this process, which I think it's worth addressing.

2 (1h 57m 47s):
And there's actually, there's a kind of found object in the news that I, I, I talk about at one point, I forget where it is in, in, in the Waking Up app, but there was a story that I stumbled on, on the internet. I think it's about 12 or 13 years old of a, a tourist bus in, I think it was in Norway. It was somewhere in northern Europe, and it had about 30 people on it. And one person was a, was described as an Asian woman, and they all, they went to a rest stop and everyone got off the bus and they, you know, shopped and had lunch and, and this Asian woman changed her clothing for whatever reason, and they all got back on the bus.

2 (1h 58m 30s):
I think the relevance of it being an Asian woman is that, you know, there were language barriers that, that that explained what later happened. So everyone gets back on the bus, the Asian woman has changed her, her clothing, and the bus is about to, to leave, but then someone notices, Hey, there, there's a, there was an Asian woman who got off the bus who isn't, hasn't come back yet, and they tell the driver this, and this poses a problem. So now everyone's waiting for this person to return. But in fact, everyone was on the bus that this woman had just changed her clothing and was not recognized by her fellow travelers. So everyone gets concerned as this, this tourist doesn't, you know, show up and they start looking for her, right? And they can't find her.

2 (1h 59m 11s):
And so a search party is formed, and the Asian woman, because of the whatever language barrier thought heard that there was a missing tourist. So she joins the search party, which in fact is looking for her, right? And this goes on into the night, and they're readying helicopters at, you know, for a dawn patrol to find the mis missing tourist. Now, at some point along the way, I think it was at like three in the morning, this tourist realizes that she is the object of this search, right? And obviously the whole thing unravels. She, you know, she confesses that she changed her clothes and, you know, the, the problem is solved, but the problem is not solved by the, the logic that the seeker is expected, right?

2 (1h 59m 56s):
So it's like, it's not true to say that the missing tourist was found in, in the way that was expected, right? Because the missing tourist was never lost. The missing tourist was part of the search party, right? And so when you think about it from her point of view, like what happened, she's part of the search party. She's looking for the missing tourist, not knowing that she in fact is the missing tourist. So what happens at the moment, she realizes that everyone's looking for her, right? Like, what, what is the, the search isn't consummated in the way that is implied by the logic of everyone's use of attention.

2 (2h 0m 36s):
And yet the problem evaporates. And there's something deeply analogous about the structure of that and the, the, the meditative journey in, in precisely in, again, not talking about all the changes in the possible changes in the contents of consciousness that could be good. Which again, they come along for the ride anyway. When you, when you do the thing I'm talking about, it's not on this point of looking for the self and not finding it. And there is this sense that, okay, the self is here and it's a problem. It is the, the string upon which all of my conscious states, mostly unhappy ones are strung, right?

2 (2h 1m 18s):
It's, it's the thing that is at the center of my anxiety. It's the th it's, it's the, it's the thing that I don't feel good about. It's the thing that when criticized, I sort of let implode, it's the center of my problem. And now I'm trying to feel better. And meditation has been handed to me as a, as a possible, you know, remedy for my situation. And it, and it's billed as a remedy. And in fact, it's, it's, it's, I'm, I'm hearing from this guy that this is the thing that is gonna cause me to realize that myself isn't where, you know, or as I thought it was. So now I'm gonna look right. And so again, you're, you're, the sense is I start out far away from the goal here.

2 (2h 2m 1s):
I start out with a problem. I'm now meditating on the evidence of my un enlightenment, right? I, I can feel my problem. I feel that I'm distracted and distractable and I feel as the sort of cramp at the center of my life. It's me. And I'm not as happy as I want to be. I'm not as confident as I want to be. I'm, I'm more distractable than I want to be, and now I'm paying attention to the breath, right? This is what the search party feels like. This is what the, the confused tourist feels like in her own search party. And she's, she's looking, she's looking for the missing person. And so the, so the, the angle of, of, you know, the inclination of all of this is, and the logic of it is all wrong, you know, understandably.

2 (2h 2m 47s):
So given how we, we all get into this situation, but you know, it, it's useful to continually try to under undercut it and recognize that, that the thing that's being looked for is, is actually right on the surface, which is, you know, the, the, there is no one looking, there is no place from which you are paying if you're paying attention to the breath or to sounds or noticing the next thought arise. This sense that you are over here doing that thing is actually what it's like to be thinking and not knowing that you're thinking you're not, there's a, there's a thought, there's an undercurrent of thought that's going uninspected in that moment.

2 (2h 3m 30s):
And so there is just a, there's a continually looking for the mind, looking for the center of experience, looking for the one who is looking, which again, which is the kind of the, the, the orienting practice here. And there's a lot more I say about this obviously over at Waking Up, but it's, it's the experiment you have to perform in order to get ready to recognize that this whole, the the search party, you know, was formed in, in error essentially. And the, the problem that you're trying to, to solve with this practice does evaporate in, in a similar way, which is like, you don't actually get there in the way that you're hoping for, right?

2 (2h 4m 16s):
It's like, like you drop out the bottom of this thing in a, in an unexpected way. It's not, there's actually another kind of a similar parable or or anecdote that I don't, I don't remember if it's Zen or Sufi or, I mean, I'm sure it's been reappropriated in many different ways, but, or by many different traditions. But there's a, this, you know, the, the case of somebody who's lost in a town and they're, they're asking for directions, you know, you can put, put this in, in, in Manhattan, you can, let's say you're wandering Manhattan and you're, you're a tourist, you don't know where anything is, and you stop and ask someone, you know, what, where is Central Park? And the person thinks for a second and they says, oh yeah, unfortunately you can't get to Central Park from here right now.

2 (2h 4m 56s):
That is a very strange, I mean, we, you think about that for a second, you realize, okay, that's a, that's an absurd cla. I mean, there is no place that you can't get to from the place you're starting, you know, on earth, right?

0 (2h 5m 9s):
Like's a failure to describe the physical relationships between anything in the

2 (2h 5m 13s):
World. Yeah. That's just not the world we live in, right? So, but it's a funny thing. It's, but it, but on some level that is true of meditation. It's like you can't get there from here. Like the, the sense of you, the sense of you as subject isn't brought along to this thing you're looking for, right? Like, you are, like, you are, you know, it's almost like, it's almost like you're, you're, you're making a fist and you're trying to get to an open hand. The fist doesn't get to take that journey as a fist, right? Like, you don't, the fist doesn't go along for the ride, the fist comes apart, right?

2 (2h 5m 53s):
And, and on some level, the, our subjectivity is a kind of an, an an intentional fist. You know, it's, it, it is a contraction of energy. Again, it's, it's so much bound up in thought for, for most of us, most of the time that it's, and when, when properly inspected, there's just this, you know, evaporation of the starting point. But there's not this, there's not this fulfillment of I'm gonna get this fist, it's going to, just, going to, if I, you know, if life gets good enough, if I get concentrated enough, focused enough, you know, if I austere enough, if I renounced enough, if I desire less, if I, you know, you know enough with enough good in intentions, this fist is gonna move into some sort of sublime condition, right?

2 (2h 6m 41s):
That's not the logic of the, the process.

0 (2h 6m 45s):
I, I really appreciate these models and analogies for conscious experience, both as most people experience them and harbor them. And it's as a way to frame what's possible through a, through a proper meditation practice. I do want to talk about what a proper meditation practice looks like a bit, but at some point I do want to raise a, a model of maybe even just perceptual awareness to see if it survives the filters that you've provided. But first, just even if briefly, and then we could return to it, you know, what does this meditation practice or set of practices look like?

0 (2h 7m 28s):
Obviously the app is a wonderful tool. I've started using it, as I mentioned in the beginning, my, my father's been using it for a while and many, many people have derived great benefit from it. But if we were to kinda break it down meditation into some basic component parts, as we have broken down normal perceptual experience and some of its component parts, yeah. I can just throw out some things that I associate with meditation and maybe you can elaborate on, on how these may or may not be applied. For instance, there is almost always a ceasing of motor mo robust motor movement. I know they're walking meditations and so forth, but it seems like sitting or lying down, and perhaps not always, but often limiting our visual perception, closing the eyes, right?

0 (2h 8m 19s):
Directing a mind's eye someplace. Is there a dedicated effort toward generating imagery? What are the component parts? And where I'm really going with this is why would those component parts eventually allow for this disillusion of the fist or the, the realization that there is no distinction between actor and observer

2 (2h 8m 41s):
And so on. Yeah, yeah. Well, so to answer that second question first, ultimately, meditation is not a practice that you're adding to your life. It's not, it's not a doing more of anything. It's actually ceasing to do something. It, it's ultimately non distraction. I mean, it is ultimately you're recognizing what consciousness is like when you're no longer distracted by the, the automatic arising of, of thought. It's not that thoughts don't arise. It's not that you can't use them, it's not that you become irrational or, or you know, unintelligent. I mean, like all of that. You, you still have all of your tools, but they're, every, everything is in plain view.

2 (2h 9m 22s):
I mean, there, there's an analogy in, in Tibetan Buddhism, which I love, which is, you know, kind of in the final stage of meditation, thoughts are like thieves entering an empty house. You know, there's nothing for them to steal, right? So, you know, in, in the usual case, thoughts are, there really is something in jeopardy. The every time a thought comes, I'm not meditating anymore. And, and not only that, I feel terrible because of what I'm thinking about most of the time, right? And so it's totally understandable. The thoughts seem like a problem in the beginning. And it, for certain types of meditation, they are explicitly thought of as a problem because you are trying to focus on one thing to the exclusion of everything else, including thought.

2 (2h 10m 4s):
And that is a kind what I called concentration practice earlier. And that is a, you know, it's a, that's a training that can be good to do. It becomes a tool that you can use for other kinds of, of, of insight. But it's a very specific and kind of brittle skill in the end. I mean, it's, it is, it is a skill just like, I'm gonna pay attention to one thing and I'm gonna do that so well that everything else is gonna fade out. And it's somewhat analogous to what you, you described in the visual system. If you, if you, you know, if have, have laser focus to one fixation point, everything else in your visual field begins to, to fade out. But meditatively, if you have a laser focus on any one thing, what, whether it's the breath or, or you know, a candle flame or whatever it is, not only does, does, I mean, let's, let's use the breath for, you know, for a second cuz your eyes are, can be closed.

2 (2h 11m 1s):
I mean, you can lose all sense of everything. I mean, you can lose all sense of hearing and your, your physical body can disappear. I mean, like literally can become incredibly subtle and vast and drug-like, and many people approach meditation thinking, kind of climbing the ladder of those changes into subtlety and vastness. That's the whole, that's the whole game, right? And it can be a deeply rewarding game to play. And it also does come with all kinds of ancillary benefits. I mean, all the focus and the calm and the, the kind of smoothness of emotional states. I mean, all that comes with greater concentration and it, it can be quite wonderful.

2 (2h 11m 41s):
But again, at best, that's a tool to aim in the direction that I'm talking about now with, with respect to meditation, which relates to more what I would call, you know, mindfulness, generically and ultimately kind of non-dual mindfulness. So mindfulness generically, and for, for most people, certainly in the, in the beginning, dualistically, is just the practice of paying careful attention to whatever is arising on its own right now. In the beginning, it's, it's, it's natural to take a single object like the breath as a starting point. It's kind of an anchor, but you know, very, very quickly, you know, over the course of even, you know, your first week of doing this, people can, you know, teachers and, you know, various sources of information will recommend that, you know, once you get some facility, once you, once you know the difference between being lost and thought and actually paying attention to the breath, well then you can open it up to everything.

2 (2h 12m 42s):
You can open it up to sounds and other sensations in the body and, and moods and emotions and even ultimately thoughts themselves. And so very quickly you can recognize that thoughts are not intrinsically the enemy to this practice. They are also just spontaneous appearances in consciousness that can be observed. But for some considerable period of time, people will feel that there is a place from which that observation is happening, right? There is just, you know, I'm now the one who's being mindful and however attenuated that sense of self can be, I mean, again, it can, it can get very expansive.

2 (2h 13m 23s):
I mean, you can, you know, you can lose, you know, as you get anything, just a modicum of concentration, you know, it becomes very drug-like. And you get, you know, your, you, the, the boundaries of your body dissolve and your feel, your feeling of having a body can disappear. And, and you, you know, if your eyes are closed, you know, your visual field, I mean, most people, when they close their eyes initially, they just forget about their visual field. But you know, it's, if you close your eyes right now, you notice your visual field is fully present and you know, it's, we call it dark, but it's not quite dark. There is this sort of scintillating some field of, of, of color and shadow that's there in the darkness of your closed eyes.

2 (2h 14m 6s):
And that can become a skylight domain of kind of vast, you know, visual expression that opens up as you, as you get more concentrated with, you know, with your eyes closed, right? So you're, so you can very much be aware of seeing with your eyes closed in, in meditative practice. But from the point of view of mindfulness, the logic is not to care about any of the interesting changes in experience that come as a result of practicing in this way. Because what you're, what the, the underlying goal is, is to be more and more a economists with changes.

2 (2h 14m 49s):
So not to grasp, but what's pleasant or interesting, and not to push what's unpleasant or, or, you know, boring or, or, or, you know, or otherwise not engaging in a way what you want is just a kind of a sky like mind that just allows everything to appear and you're not clinging to anything or, or, or reacting to anything.

0 (2h 15m 11s):
Could I ask you what your thoughts are about the differences between nouns, adjectives and verbs in the context of what we're talking about and you're describing? And the reason bring this up is that, as you know, and I know everything in biology is a process, you know, we, we would never, ever say, oh, you know, the perception of that red line on a painting is, is a noun. Right? Right. I mean, it's, it's an event in the visual system. You're, you're abstracting some understanding about that thing in the outside world. And I think it's very useful in thinking about the brain. And people will notice, I notice I, excuse me, actively avoid the use of the word mind because I, I figure I, especially with you sitting across from me, that I'll, I'll step in it if I, if I do, but the brain generates a series of perceptions or, or what have you, by through processes not nouns.

0 (2h 16m 8s):
And so when thinking about biology, I think of development is a, is a, is an arc of processes. Aging is an arc, perception is an arc of processes. They just exist on different time scales. And so a little bit of what I'm hearing is that inside of an effective meditation practice, there's a little bit of a, of a, certainly non-judgment, but discarding of the, the noun and the adjective modes of language like red apple. Okay, it's a red apple, but then you sort of need to eliminate some other adjectives about it. It's a rotten apple, it's a, you know, ripe apple and instead view the appearance and disappearance of that apple as a, it's just a thing, a process as opposed to an event.

0 (2h 16m 49s):
Yeah. And now events could, we could really get into the language aspect of the, that just reveals how diminished language is to describe the workings of the brain at some level. I don't know if any of this resonates, but it, but it seems to me the goal or one of the goals is to start to understand the algorithm that is the fleeting nature of perception. But to not focus on any one single perception and then to not even focus on one single algorithm, but to, at some level, there's a, what is revealed to the meditator over time is some sort of macroscopic principle about the way perceptions work at a deeper level, right?

0 (2h 17m 30s):
That there's, that there's sort of a, a deeper principle there that sits below our, nor certainly our normal everyday awareness, but that in paying attention to the mechanics of all this stuff, and not judging those mechanics, not naming those mechanics or just naming them and let them pass by that there's some action function, some verb is revealed. Yeah. And that maybe that verb, maybe the word to describe that verb is mindfulness. Maybe mindfulness is, is really just a verb to describe that. I don't know. But is there anything here or am I create, am I, yeah, no, I don't know if I'm creating just like useless straw or if there's, if there's actually a seed here of something real. But to me, anytime I want to understand something in biology or psychology, I train broaden the time domain and think in terms of verbs, not nouns or adjectives.

2 (2h 18m 15s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that, that's very useful. And that's somewhat adjacent to this distinction I'm making between dualistic and non-dualistic ways of experiencing the world. So even dualistically, everything is still a process, right? And, and we're misled by the, the reification that noun talk gives us. So, and this, this applies not just to something like mindfulness, but even to something like the self, right? So the sense of self is also a process. I mean, it's, it's, it's a verb. It's not, it's a, we're we're self more than we are selves, right? And, and there are, you know, even even appropriate uses of of, of the term self that don't go away.

2 (2h 19m 0s):
Even when you, when you recognize that the, the, the core subject self is an illusion. There, there are states of self, right? Where you, you can recognize in your life that you inhabit very different modes of, of being depending on the context. So like there are moments where you just, by walking into a certain building, you suddenly transition into a different state of self. Like, like suddenly you pass through a door and now you are a customer in a store, right? So we know what that customer feeling is like. You're now the person who's getting the attention. It's a very kind of formalized type of attention from the person who's running the store and you know, or a restaurant, you're a customer in a restaurant, right?

2 (2h 19m 44s):
That's a, I just, I just remembered something that's kind of funny that, that was born of a mismatch of, of this, I'll come back to that in a second. Let's do, but so there are, so we, we go through, you can be a, you know, you can be a student in the presence of a teacher. You can be a parent in the presence of a, of a son or a daughter. You can be a spouse in presence, in the presence of your spouse. And all of those shadings of like the, the the, the change in context really does usher in some fundamental psychological changes in just the states of consciousness that are available to you.

2 (2h 20m 26s):
I mean, and, and it's, and some of this is really, I mean, I'm sure we could understand a lot about this, you know, personally and, and you know, generically, but it is pretty mysterious. I mean, like, I mean, there are people who I know who I, you know, I'm with them in a certain way and like, based on something I'm getting off of them. Like I can't be that I, I'm, I'm, I'm effortlessly one way with them and there's no way I could be that way with somebody else, right? Like, it's just, I don't know if it's pheromones or their, you know, their facial. It's just the way they are. They're facial expression. But I mean, they're people with whom I'm really kind of effortlessly funny.

2 (2h 21m 9s):
And there are people with whom, you know, I couldn't even, it would never occur to me to be funny no matter what happened. You know, it's like, and, and I have like long-standing relationships with, with these people, you know? So like, it, it's, it's just very, you know, all that's very mysterious. But anyway, the, the difference there is, is not in this core sense of subject in relationship to all the objects, it's in kind of the, the, the states of self. And, but, and, and all of that is just, is very verby, right? Like all this is this pattern of changes. It's a pattern of what's available and what's not available. The capacities that are, you know, that are, that come online are not in, in, in those various contexts. But no, the, the memory I just had, which I hadn't, hadn't had in a long time, but it was one of these, these moments where I realized the power of these shifts and contexts for states of self.

2 (2h 22m 1s):
So I, once I was a, a young man, I think I was, I was probably 22 or so and single and like, just like trying to figure out how, how, how do you meet women and like how does, how does one get confident to do this? Well, and I, I walked into a restaurant and a kind of a woman was walking toward me at, you know, toward the front door of the restaurant. But she was walking toward me in a way where I just by default assumed she was the hostess in the restaurant, but she wasn't the hostess. She was just a, a, you know, someone who had just eaten there, I guess.

2 (2h 22m 44s):
So I walked through and she comes out and so there's a fundamental misunderstanding in me that's set up by literally just this change in architecture. And I, and so I just said hi to her in a way that I would, I presumably I would say hi to any hostess who was coming up to, to ask me whether where I wanted to sit. But what had actually happened is I had said hi to a total stranger in a way that I tended at that point never to say hi to total strangers. Cause I was shy and, you know, it was just like, but apparently I gave her like a 10,000 watt high, you know, high of like, like all of the confidence you would have if you, if you were that sort of person. And it just ushered in a complete like, you know, this is, so I went to my table and this woman like came back into the restaurant and like gave me her phone number, right?

2 (2h 23m 27s):
Which was something that was just completely foreign experience to me, you know? And it was based completely on my misunderstanding of the situation I was in, right? And, and so anyway,

0 (2h 23m 37s):
Among the understanding, among the misunderstandings that one can have and then action engage in life, I, I would say that that was a somewhat adaptive

2 (2h 23m 46s):
One. Yeah, yeah. No, but, but, but then you realize that, okay, but then there are certain people who recognize this machinery to whatever degree, or have na kind of natural aptitudes for bringing certain things online or not such that, okay, they can make these sta they can consciously make these states of self, you know, this kind, this level of gregariousness say, available to them in different, in, in the circumstances where it's, it's actually useful to them. So if, if you, if you're single and you wanna meet people, well it's, it's, it's actually very helpful to, to feel confident enough to just go say hi to strangers and ask 'em how they're doing and to, and to, and to be, to be, you know, online, you know, in, in that way where at that point in my life, in that circumstance, you know, by ha you know, by default I was gonna ignore this stranger who I was passing by in, in, in the doorway of a restaurant, but thinking she was the hostess, I was engaging her, you know, fully.

2 (2h 24m 41s):
So anyway, you can consciously, again, this does not invoke free will at all. But yes, you can consciously decide to play with this, with these mechanisms such that you can decide, you what state, states of self would be more normative to have given what you want in life. And, and you can become increasingly, you know, attentive to the ways in which you get played by the world. You know, you're a kind of instrument, your mind is a kind of instrument. Your brain is a kind of instrument that is continually getting played by the situations you are in. And you can become more of a, an intelligent curator of your conscious states and your conscious capacities just by noticing the changes in you.

2 (2h 25m 21s):
Like I I, in graduate school, this is something I talk about. I think at some point in waking up, this became very stark for me because I had, you know, I was a, you know, an old graduate student and I had, I had taken 11 years off at Stanford between my sophomore and junior year, right? So I, like when I went back to school, talk about a leave of absence. Yeah, no, it was, yeah, yeah. But I mean, so Stanford had this, you know, you might know this, they have this stop out policy where you never really drop out, you just stop out. So you're like, can always go back. You don't have to write letters saying that you still exist every, you know, two years as you do in other schools. So anyway, I showed up after 11 years and, but you know, so I was really on a deadline.

2 (2h 26m 2s):
I mean, I felt late for everything. So I'm kind of, you know, finishing my degree, you know, as quickly as I can as an undergraduate. And then I jump into graduate school and I'm an old graduate student and I'm, you know, there's a real sense of kind of urgency. Like, I'm late, I want, I should have done this earlier. I wanna get this stuff done. But then nine 11 happened and I asked just as I had finished my coursework at, you know, getting my, my PhD and I was just getting into my research, but nine 11 intersected with my life in such a way that I just had to drop everything and write my first book. And I did that. And then I just had to drop everything and write my second book because of the response to the first book. And so, essentially I had like four years where I was AWOL doing my PhD, but I was still had a toe in the lab and I was still showing up occasionally, but I was becoming this kind of cautionary tale from the point of view of grad school.

2 (2h 26m 53s):
But I was also becoming kind of a famous, you know, or semi-famous writer cuz my first book had been a a, a New York Times bestseller. And I, I just, I was, you know, so I was getting some notoriety as a, a writer. And so I was doing things like, you know, I was given a TED talk, but I still hadn't finished graduate school, right? So like, it was just, it was, I think that timing's right, maybe I had just finished graduate school when I gave the TED talk. But anyway, so I I I was in rowing in two boats and one boat was sinking or, you know, showing every si sign of, of being damaged. And I was literally like, you know, getting letters from the head of the department saying, you know, we're concerned about you. But on the other hand, I was like becoming a, you know, a, a quasi celebrity in, in that world too.

2 (2h 27m 37s):
You know, at least in a world that was overlapping. So I was having the experience of like going in, I mean, the, the moment where this crystallized with for me in a, in a fairly peculiar way was I had a meeting at like three o'clock with my advisor who was just this guy Mark Cohen in the brain mapping center in at, at UCLA is a fantastic guy, great advisor. I, I did not extract as much wisdom from him as I, I should have brilliant scientist and you know, he's, for him, I'm late, right? At least in my head. Like he, it's not that he was riding me so hard, but like in my head, I'm very self-conscious about how I'm not living up to his expecta expectations at this point.

2 (2h 28m 19s):
So I have a meeting with him at like three o'clock and I'm just kind of wilting, you know, under my, you know, you know, his gaze and my own imagined, you know, inner gaze of his, you know. But that two hours later I have a meeting with his boss, you know, a dinner meeting with his boss who wants to meet with me to get advice on launching his book. We have the same publisher, but I'm like the much bigger author at, you know, at Norton, you know, and, and he's, he's coming to me for advice. And so I'm Rick ashamed between two diametrically opposite self states that are, again, this comes down to architecture. It's literally like the state I was in walking into one building and then leaving and walking into another building on the same campus.

2 (2h 29m 7s):
And they were completely opposite self-concepts. Like in one, in, in one context, I am a fuck up. In another context, I am a celebrity who's,

0 (2h 29m 20s):
And you have mastery and virtuosity and yeah. And, and we're developing it very quickly.

2 (2h 29m 24s):
Yeah. And, and, but so again, this is kind of a stark ver version of that, but everyone has some version of this just ian balancing between talking to their mom and then talking to a their best friend and then talking to a stranger and then, and talking to someone who's, who's very successful, talking to someone who's not very, like all you notice your vulnerability to all of this stuff. And ultimately what you want is a level of psychological integrity that, that is truly forceable from that. Now that I, I'm not, I'm not saying you're ever gonna get it perfect, you know, there's, there's always gonna be some, I mean, yeah, I, I can't, I can't talk about the ultimate fulfillment of this process.

2 (2h 30m 8s):
Like I'm not, I'm not, you know, I'm not a Buddha. I'm not saying I'm, I've, I've finished the project, but I think there's more and more you, you know, as you become, become sensitive to these changes and you become sensitive to what it's like to actually not be psychologically reactive and, and not be definable by your own self-concept, your own, I mean, you're not identifying with anything. You're not hanging your hat on anything. You're not thinking about yourself in terms in, in, in, in the, in the kind of terms that you would export to others and then care about what they think about you. Right? Like you're, there's a kind of invulnerability that, that arises that's not born of being well defended, it's born of, of, of being evaporated, right?

2 (2h 31m 0s):
It's like you're no longer keeping score in those ways.

0 (2h 31m 3s):
Once again, we're, we're at the, I really appreciate that description because I, I I, these days I'm, I'm really intrigued by something we've known for a long time that I'm, you're certainly familiar with is prefrontal cortex's ability to establish context dependent rule sets. You know, strop task will be, you know, basic example of, you know, reading numbers or letters on, on cards, and then switching to having to report the colors that the letters and numbers are written in. It's a basic task, but prefrontal cortex obviously important for setting context dependent thought and behavior and directed action. And, and, but within the context of all these different variations of the self, depending on graduate school or, you know, relationship or sitting alone in one's room, yeah.

0 (2h 31m 46s):
Their different rule sets arise. But, and somehow we, we are able to have a, a sense, a coherent sense of self that encompasses all of those functional people can toggle between them as needed and not overlap them inappropriately. At least not to the extent that it's career failing or life failing, although there are sad examples of that, many of which exist in the Twitter space. I I know several colleagues, not directly of mine, but people who through mistakes made with their thumbs where they forgot context. Right? Or forgot to realize that the context on social media is near infinite. Yeah. But the context that it existed in their head might not be clear in the way that they communicated something and they lost their jobs, right?

0 (2h 32m 32s):
By saying what were perceived as insensitive things in some cases we're in fact offensive, insensitive things. In some cases it's debatable, right? In any case, I think that the, the, the image that now comes to mind relates to something you've said several times that it's not about eliminating something, it's about revealing that something was never actually there. And then in terms of sensor experience, and this, these different aspects of the self, I have this image in my mind of, of, I'm not an experienced scuba diver, but I've done enough of it, you know, I've worn a wetsuit, you wear a complete wetsuit with the hood. And this idea, you know, if you were born into that wetsuit, you might think that yeah, you, you know, nudge up or lean up against a wall and you experience it one way, right?

0 (2h 33m 16s):
And, but were you to shed that wetsuit, you go, wow, there's this incredible landscape of somatic sensory experience that I had no idea. It goes way beyond levels of sensitivity. Right? Now you're talking about fine, two point discrimination and light strokes, and this could be positive or negative pain in other ways too. But what you're describing is essentially that the wetsuit was never really there, it, but was created through a series of in, of action steps. And what I think what we're migrating towards here is a s out of, for most non-intuitive or non reflexive action steps that reveal to us that in fact, we're not wearing the sweatsuit.

0 (2h 33m 57s):
Now you raised one topic, which i, I think is analogous to this sweatsuit, which is this notion of distraction. Yeah. Then normally distraction is masking what would otherwise be a, a better experience of life. Yeah. I can think of distraction as falling into two different bins. One would be the kind of distraction that is internally generated, like the fact that thoughts arise and pull me down different alleyways and avenues of my, of my brain and my thoughts and my experience. And then the other would be, and, and that, that would compete with my ability to really focus on something and then another form of distraction, which captures my ability to focus intensely, but has me focusing on the wrong things.

0 (2h 34m 43s):
And here I think the judgment of wrong is, is reasonable to include if, for instance, I'm being impulsively yanked to something on social media, I'm being impulsively yanked to someone else's pain and experience, and somehow confusing that with my own experience. This isn't empathy, but just getting yanked around my attention as a spotlight is kinda like over here, over there. I'm not feeling as if I'm the one standing behind that spotlight controlling it, or I'm not the spotlight. Right. Just to keep with the, what we've been building up here. So could you tell us a little bit about distraction and tell me whether or not these two forms are in any way accurate or inaccurate?

0 (2h 35m 23s):
I'd be happy for them to, to be inaccurate and whether or not there are other forms of distraction that we need to be on the lookout for. And again, I think what most people are seeking is what is the way to not just enhance our ability to focus, but to shed this wetsuit like cloak that limits our experience that I'm calling and that you've called distraction.

2 (2h 35m 43s):
Yeah. I get, well, this, I mean, distraction is, is one component of it. The, the other, a aspect of it is identification with thought and identification. The feeling of self is bound up in the sense that, that I'm the, I'm the thinker. I'm the one attending, I'm the one vulnerable, I'm the inner kind of the inner homunculus that's vulnerable to experience and it can be gratified by it or not. And it's constantly trying to improve it or, and mitigate negative aspects of it. It's the, it's the sense that there's kind of a, a rider on the horse of consciousness as opposed to just consciousness and its contents. So it, it again, it, it, it rises the top, this illusion of control, et cetera.

2 (2h 36m 27s):
So to, to go all the way back to the, to the question you asked about just what is an, you know, what do I recommend as a starting point for, for meditation? Some of your assumptions are in fact true. Yes. I mean, it's, it's, it's, you know, I often recommend in the beginning people close their eyes and you, you, you do a sitting practice and, and that's different from a walking practice. I mean, you can do both, but people tend to start, you know, sitting with their eyes closed. But again, ultimately where this is going is it's not an art meditation. Properly recognized is not an artifice that you're adding into your life. It's not, it's not even a practice. It is, it is less rather than more.

2 (2h 37m 7s):
You know, it. And, and therefore it is also coincident with a, you know, ev potentially every waking moment. There's nothing, there's nothing that you can do with your attention once you know how to meditate. That in principle excludes meditation, because me, meditation is just a, a recognition of an, an intrinsic character of consciousness in each moment. And all you have in each moment is consciousness and its contents, whatever you're doing. So, so in the beginning, you, you know, you'll, you'll be very deliberate and precious about deciding to practice meditation, and you'll set aside 10 minutes in the morning, and you'll do that, and then, and it'll seem very different from the next 10 minutes when you're, you know, spilling out onto your to to-do list.

2 (2h 37m 53s):
And you're, you're trying to figure out, you know, what the day looks like, right? But ultimately you want to erase this boundary between formal practice and the rest of life such that there is, it is just not remotely findable. And, and, and that, that's, that's achievable. And, and I think you, even from the very beginning, you can relax this conceptual distinction between meditation and its antithesis because it's not, it's not at the level of anything you're doing, it's the level, it's at the level of what's happening in your relationship to thought. You know, like what, what can you notice when, when, you know, like it's the transition from, you know, the bias, the bias, stable percep, you know, you're looking at the, at the, the image and you see nothing.

2 (2h 38m 41s):
Now, let's say this, you know, the dalmatian, you know, it's just the spots on the paper and you just, you don't see, you don't see anything. And then all of a sudden the dalmatian or the face of Jesus or whatever the, the image is, pops out, and then you see it, it's the transition from nothing to something, right? That you, the practice becomes the transition from being lost in thought and then waking up and break. You know, it's very much like breaking the spell of thought. Identification with thought is very much like waking up from a dream and having, it's like that transition the whole, like, you're having a dream and there's a couple things are true there.

2 (2h 39m 23s):
I mean, it, it really is a kind of, it's, it's a, it's a psychosis that is just not, we don't problematize because you're safely in bed and you're not moving unless you've got some kind of, you know, sleep disorder. You're not walking around harming yourself or anybody else. So, but to be in bed and to not know it and to think you are, you know, running along a beach or, you know, you're, you know, getting tried for murder in a court of law or whatever the thing is that you're completely delusional about, right? That is psychosis, right? And, and so like, you're fundamentally unaware of your circumstance and then you, there are two things can happen there. You can either become lucid within the dream, right? Which is interesting, and that's a whole, there's a whole phenomenology of that which can be practiced, but more commonly, you can just wake up from the dream and all of a sudden the problem you thought you had is no longer there.

2 (2h 40m 15s):
And a and you have a completely different context for your conscious life. Like now, you know, you're in bed, you were safely in bed, all, all the while There really is something analogous when you break this identification with thought, right? You're just, you're having a thought that seems to be some kind of, you know, moral or psychological emergency. And, and yet you can, you can, the moment you see daylight around it, the moment you see that, that the mind is larger than, than this mirror appearance, right? Then you have it, suddenly you have a degree of freedom that, that a moment ago was just unthinkable, right?

2 (2h 40m 59s):
And you're also, you recognize, you sort of come to, in a way, you recognize your circumstance in a way that you weren't a moment ago when you were just talking to yourself when you were just identical to that conversation. So this is all, all to say that, that ultimately meditation, I mean, so again, there's another apparent paradox here. Many people don't know much about meditation will say things like, you know, well, you know, for me, running is my meditation or skiing or rock climbing or playing the guitar, something they like to do that gives 'em an experience of flow. That's what, that's what they go to, to feel better. And that's, that's the opposite of all the, you know, the chaos of their lives or the, the, you know, their time on Twitter or whatever it is.

2 (2h 41m 47s):
In virtually every case, it's, it's not true to say that that is effectively meditation. You're not gonna, by learning to play the guitar, you're not gonna learn what I'm calling meditation. And you're not gonna learn it by, you know, cycling or getting and getting, no matter how good you get at any of those things, you're not gonna learn it by doing those things. But paradoxically, not really, but it can seem like a paradox. Once you know how to meditate, then you can meditate doing all of those things, right? Meditation is totally compatible with playing the guitar or skiing or, you know, doing any ordinary thing you like to do, right? So once you know how to meditate, and again, it's totally natural in the beginning to formalize it and to set aside time each day to do it because it is a, it is a training.

2 (2h 42m 30s):
I mean, it is something that in the beginning you have to get used to, but once you have, once you're getting used to it, then there is no good reason not to be experiencing this thing. I'm calling meditation. This, this insight into the, the, the centerless of consciousness, the, the, the non selfhood of consciousness. You should experience it when you are playing your favorite sport or when you're having a conversation with somebody. And the, then the reason then to come back to your initial assumption about eyes closed. A lot of practice, even formal practice can be done eyes open. And it's important to do it eyes open because so much of our anchoring of our sense of self is, is based on visual cues.

2 (2h 43m 16s):
I mean, like, we just, we, we know that you can, if you give people the right visual cues, you can translocate their sense of self. You can give them an out of body experience, you know, with a, with a video display where you, you can literally make them feel like you can, there's a body swapping illusion. You can make them, you can make them feel that they're in another person's body looking back at their body. If you, if you, you know, run the cameras the right

0 (2h 43m 38s):
Way. I've done this in vr seeing an image of, of you, they create an avatar for you and then your bodily movements generate the movements of the avatar and you start gaining presence as they call it in the VR Yeah. Lingo very quickly. And then pretty soon you lose sense of your own bodily representation and Yeah. And it's a little eerie. What's eer is to me, is going back into, of course, never left, but back into your actual body when the VR goggles pop off, right? The world seems almost overwhelming, the number of sensory stimuli that area in a, like a laboratory room, which is actually quite sparse, right? So exactly what you described this translocation of, of notions of self through visual experience And,

2 (2h 44m 23s):
But, but conversely, when you lose the sense of self, the, the sense self I'm talking about, it can be especially vivid and, and salient with eyes open. Because, because so much, so many of your reference points to selfhood are delivered visually, right? Especially in a social situation. So like, you know, I'm talking to you, you're looking back at me, right? So you're, the implication of your gaze is that I'm over here behind my face implicated by your gaze. Like, so the sense that you are looking at something is the sense of self in that social context, right? And so, and if your, if your facial expression changes, like, so I'm saying something, and if you kind of furl your brow, like, well, what the hell's here?

2 (2h 45m 3s):
You know, and I can read into that facial change some interstate of yours that is, you know, salient to me, all of a sudden we've got this sort of dance of like, I'm noticing you reacting to me. And I'm feel that's, that's changing the way I'm feeling about what I'm, that, that, that's, that's the, you know, the, the purview of, you know, every neurosis everyone didn't want. Right?

0 (2h 45m 23s):
And every relationship, I had a girlfriend when I was a postdoc who's a, who was very, very, she was brilliant, really still is. And she always said that every relationship is, is there're four arrows. She used to say she's an neuroscientist, still is. And said, you know, there's the arrow of, you know, she was talking to me. So she said, you know me to you and kind of what you perceive coming from me, and then there's you to me, and then there's an arrow from the middle going right back at each one of us, right? Which is our own perception of what the other person is thinking about us. And it's feeding back on the other arrow. And she gave me this very clear but model of basically relationships, right? The relationship failed, but it was good while it lasted, I should say.

0 (2h 46m 4s):
And, but the four arrow model of relationships actually shows up in every type of one, one-on-one relationship. And it's probably an under description of, of the total number of arrows. But as I think it's exactly what you're describing is that perception of self through the eyes of other, whether or not we're empathic or not strongly shapes the way that we access different context dependent rule sets about what we're gonna say. I'm not gonna say it's very dynamic, right?

2 (2h 46m 27s):
Yeah. So, but the, the freedom that I think we want, and, and people can sometimes experience this just haphazardly, but the, the thing that the center of the bullseye from the meditative point of view is to get off that ride entirely and to, so, so that losing the sense of self in this context of, of a social encounter is to, is to give up your face essentially like your, like, so, and, and what what that entails is, or what that gives you is the free attention to actually just pay attention to the other person, right? And the other person is now no longer quite an object in the world for you.

2 (2h 47m 9s):
There's really just a kind of a totality of which that person is a part. And, and, and actually, you know, Martin Buber, the, the kind of mystical Jewish philosopher talked about the kinda the i thou relationship and, and this, I think it's, you know, it's been a long times I've read Buber, but, and I don't know if he goes, you know, far enough to be truly non-dualistic. But this distinction between, I, I am now because the, the thou part of it is, is I think potentially this, or again, it's been several decades since I read read him, but there's a, there's a, there's a way of beholding another person where you have the free attention to simply behold them, right?

2 (2h 47m 56s):
Like, you're no longer, you're, you're no, you no longer care what they think about you. You don't feel neurotically implicated by their gays. You don't feel you, you're, you're simply the space in which they're appearing, right? And so you're free, like, like there's just, there's no, and, and people can feel, and so, so you're, you're, you're, by definition you are no longer self-conscious, right? And when you, and this phrase self-consciousness really does get at this, what I'm calling the self, the, the, the elusory self as a kind of contraction. And and you can, you can notice this for yourself. Just imagine what it's like to go from not being self-conscious to suddenly being self-conscious and the, the, the, the approximate cause of this, you know, almost invariably is suddenly recognizing that somebody's looking at you, right?

2 (2h 48m 49s):
It's like you're in a Starbucks and you're, you know, you're alone and you're reading the newspaper, whatever it is. And this is now sounds highly anachronistic. It's been three years since I've held a physical newspaper, I think in a Starbucks. But you know, you're, you're, you're just minding your own business and you look up and you just, you're seeing, you know, a room full of strangers, but then you notice that someone is just looking at you, you know? And so like that moment of eye contact, right? Suddenly that throws you back on yourself as a kind of, suddenly you are the object in, in the world for that other person. That recognition is a, the tightening there, the kind of contraction there is a, is a a, a further ramification of this, this feeling.

2 (2h 49m 40s):
Most of us have, most of the time of being the center of experience like the ti the, the place you feel like it's, it's like, you know, we're all walking around with a fist and in moments of self-consciousness, the fist gets really tight. You know? And that's, and that's, that's the thing that gets fully relaxed when you discover this, this what I'm, you know, in various points called the nature of mind or the, the, the non-dual nature of consciousness. It's just that there is no center to this experience. And when you recognize no center, then even when your gaze is aimed at another person's gaze, there is no implication going back to the center cuz there is no center, right?

2 (2h 50m 20s):
And, and rather than that being an experience of weird detachment or confusion or, or it's, it's actually an experience of greater relationship because you're no longer, you're no longer defended, you're, there's not, you're not defending anything over here. Like, you're not, you're not braced against anything. You're just the space in which that person is showing up. And so it's, it's a, it's a, an experience of being much more comfortable in, in the presence of another person, you know, whatever your relationship, because you're not contracting, right? And then when you do, when you have that, again, and this is meditation, right? This is meditation that is totally compatible with having a conversation with somebody.

2 (2h 51m 2s):
And then when you notice yourself contracting, like when you notice you're not doing, you're not meditating anymore, you're just, you're actually reacting like they just said something or looked a certain way and now you're cast back upon yourself in relationship to them. That becomes a kind of mindfulness alarm, right? Then, you know, that, that it becomes like the, the, the unsatisfactoriness of that psychologically becomes more and more salient, right? And it's because that's not one, that's not the way you want to be. I mean, it's like, it's the antithesis of it being as, as comfortable as you were a moment ago. But two, it's, it's something you're doing unnecessarily, right?

2 (2h 51m 46s):
Like, it's like you're, you're, you're, you're like, again, you're making a fist when you don't have to make a fist, right? And it, and it's, again, you can leave aside all those circumstances where it's appropriate to react to someone. And you know, I'm, I'm sure you know, I'm into martial arts and self-defense, and yes, you're not supposed to be just this puddle of goo out in the world who can be just mistreated by people and, and you know, never put up, you know, resistance. But it's psychologically, you know, even if, even if a state like anger or contraction is sometimes normative and appropriate, the question is how long is it normative and appropriate for? Like, how, how long do you want to stay angry for?

2 (2h 52m 28s):
In my experience, these kind of classically negative emotions like anger and fear are appropriate as salience cues. You know, they, they orient you to, you know, an emergency or a potential emergency, but then in dealing with the emergency, they're almost never the state you want to be in. You know, it's like you, you don't, you know, you, you don't like, it's, it's better to actually calm in an emergency, you know?

0 (2h 52m 54s):
So. Oh, absolutely. I think that, and again, the language is, is insufficient to describe what, what you're telling us. But I think what comes to mind for me is this distinction between situational awareness and self-awareness. And we need both, but under conditions of emergency, true emergency or motivated desire, we need to dial down the amount of self-awareness in order to be more effective within the situational awareness. But you said something very important, and my lab's been working on fear like states for a long time, so I'm gonna, I I confess, I'm gonna rob this from you, but I'll credit you every time I describe it, is that, that the, that the, the fear of the threat detection state or set of events acts as a, as a flag, but is not meant to persist in the way that the flag went up.

0 (2h 53m 52s):
Right? If one is to be in their most adaptive state, actually, Jocko wiling and I were talking about this. He has talks a lot about detachment and open gaze, things that my lab is interested in visual system and autonomic interactions. So why broadening the gaze literally broadens the time domain of thinking. You've come up with new solutions to complex problems in real time and so on. And, and you're describing an everyday set of interactions where that could be very useful. And yet there seems to be something that, about the way you describe meditation and what you've managed to arrive at and what practitioners of meditation can arrive at, which is something more than that. Like, it, it's not just about being effective or optimizing all the language we see thrown around a lot in the space that I, I live in these days.

0 (2h 54m 38s):
But, but something fundamentally more important about how to experience life and the self. This, this realization that what you thought was there was never really there, there are, but that there are constraints that limit that. And so to try and fracture those dis constraints one by one, would you say that meditation as a practice done for a few minutes each day or with the app, that it's a kind of a step function? Is it very non-linear in terms of people's progress? Yes. You know, I'm certainly gonna go start doing more meditation based on this discussion, truly, because anytime someone describes a, that there's kind of a myth that we've been living in, i, I become obsessed with the idea of dissolving that myth, right?

0 (2h 55m 27s):
Right. That's a very seductive phrase. Yeah. So thank you for using that one. There is no better marketing tool, which is, I realize what you're not trying to do here, but that's for me to capture my, my efforts. You tell me that there's a myth that I'm living in and that it can be dissolved and that opens up a better landscape. Yeah. What, what is the, the process like? Is it, do some people make progress very quickly? Do some people experience kind of step functions towards progress? What does the meditation practice look like over time? Hmm. Do you still meditate or do, have you just threaded it through your jujitsu, you're writing your daily life, your coffee, your time with your wife, et cetera?

2 (2h 56m 7s):
Yeah. Also, just to come back to, just to, to talk about the myth for a second. So there really, what you just enunciated was a kind of a second doorway into this whole project. So like, the, the usual door is through the door of suffering, for lack of a better word. I mean, people feel unhappy in a variety of ways, and they get more sensitized to the mechanics of their own unhappiness. And meditation is one of the things on the menu that's, that is, is explicitly built as a remedy for, for unhappiness. And, and it is. And that's, you know, I think that's probably the most common path to this. But another path is just intellectual interest. I mean, just wanting to know what's real.

2 (2h 56m 48s):
So about the mind subjectively in a, in a first person way. And, and there's, there's no contradiction between those two things. I'm, I'm motivated by both of them, but you know, it's a totally valid doorway into this. There are definitely step functions. I mean, I would say they're, they're at least two. I mean the, the, and it, they really are articulated along the lines of, of the framework I've been describing of, of dualistic and non-dualistic mindfulness, right? So in the beginning, you're gonna start out, you know, 99.9% of people will start out dualistically paying attention and, and noticing the difference between being distracted by thought and then being on the object of attention, whether it's the breath or sounds or whatever.

2 (2h 57m 35s):
And eventually that, you know, that opens up to all possible objects of attention, including thoughts and the, and the, there's still this fluctuation between being distracted and then being mindful of whatever. And the fact that it's open to all possible objects differentiates this type of practice from anything that is narrowly focused on one object, like a mantra or a visualization or soci. You know, those are other paths of practice that are, are more concentration based and interesting. But the, the benefit of mindfulness is that very quickly you realize it's by definition compatible with all possible experience because you're not artificially contracting your attention down to something.

2 (2h 58m 17s):
You're ju you're just being aware of the next thing, a sight, a sound, a taste, a thought. So the first step function is to very clearly experience the difference between being lost in thought and being clearly aware of any part of experience, including thought. And to notice the freedom that compared to psychological freedom that gives you, right? So you can, like, you're, something's made you angry and now you're thinking about all the reasons why you should be angry and have every right to be angry and what you're gonna tell that person when you see them. And, and then you notice you're thinking, right? And you notice the connection between the thought and the anger, right?

2 (2h 58m 58s):
Like, like the, the minute spent lost in thought about what's making you angry is the thing that dragged through the physiology of anger, right? And the moment you notice that once you're mindful, once you can be mindful, you can notice thought as thought and how quickly that dissipates that just the language and the imagery, it just, you, you couldn't hold onto it if you wanted to. And then you notice the physiology of the anger is just this kind of meaningless, you know, kind inner incandescence that has its own half life and degrades very, very quickly when you're no longer thinking about the reasons why you should be angry. You can't hold onto the anger, the anger itself dissipates, right?

2 (2h 59m 41s):
And from some, from the point of view of the one who's being mindful, this is tremendous relief. I mean, and at minimum it's a degree of freedom. You can at that point decide, well, how long do I wanna be angry for? Right? Is it useful to stay angry? Do I wanna be angry for one minute, two minutes, five minutes, 10 minutes? Or cuz And before you have that capacity to be mindful, you are gonna helplessly be as angry as you're gonna be for as long as you're gonna be that way, just based on the kind of the time course, if you're thinking about it, brooding about it, telling your wife about it, you know, like just the, the, you know, it's just gonna be this conversation based misadventure in, you know, negative states of mind.

2 (3h 0m 23s):
And you are, you are going to be the hostage of that for as long as you'll be the hostage of that. You'll have nothing you can do apart from just deciding to, you know, check out and watch Game of Thrones again for the third time, right? Like, like it's just you can divert your attention to something else, which is, you know, sometimes a good thing to do. But mindfulness, even dualistic, mindfulness gives you this capacity to just observe the mechanics of this and then get off the ride when you, when you, whenever you want. So that really is a step function. Like first there was a time when there was a time before you could do that, and then there's a time after which you can do that, that the other step function is noticing that there is no one who is doing that.

2 (3h 1m 7s):
I mean, this is the non-duality, the the selflessness, the, the senselessness of awareness, right? The fact that there's no place from which the mindfulness is being aimed, but the fact that there's just this open condition in which everything is appearing, you know, thoughts included to, to have you as at that point, your mindfulness no longer becomes, it's no longer this, this dualistic effort to strategically pay attention to anything as opposed to being lost in thought. It's just what's left when thoughts, when, when, when the C present recognized thought unravels even before it unravels.

2 (3h 1m 50s):
What's recognized is you are simply identical to the condition in which everything is appearing. Now, again, this is not a, I'm not making a a, a Deepak cho Chopra like metaphysical claim about the mind. You know, this is not, I'm not saying the mind isn't what the brain is doing. I'm not saying that you're recognizing the consciousness that gave birth to the universe. And I'm not making any broad claims about metaphysics. I'm just talking about as a matter of experience, there is just this condition in which everything is appearing right, and what you're calling your body, again, as a matter of experience, I'm not saying that we can't have third person conversations about, you know, physical bodies in a physical world, but as a matter of experience, the only body you are ever going to directly encounter as your own is an appearance in consciousness, right?

2 (3h 2m 41s):
So consciousness is not in your body, what you're calling your body is in consciousness, visually, proprioceptively. It's like everything is just appearing in this condition. And again, you are not aiming that you're not, this is not a spotlight that you're aiming at the body or at, you know, there's just this condition in which everything, including anything you could call yourself is appearing. And so, yeah, so that's the second step function is to recognize that this is all, this is already true. Consciousness is already without this thing you've been calling your ego, hoping and, you know, hoping to, to unravel it through meditation.

2 (3h 3m 26s):
Consciousness is not gonna get any more selfless, any more centerless, any freer than it always already is recognized as such. And so that's, that's the, the step function at that point is your mindfulness at that point. The thing you come back to when you're no longer distracted is that that recognition again and again, and then it becomes, yeah, it becomes compatible with anything you would do. And so to answer your question, yes, I still practice, you know, formally, you know, sometimes, you know, frequently, but not, you know, I, I definitely miss days and I don't do it for, I mean I, you know, I, I don't rule out the, the possibility that I will go back on retreat at various times just to, you know, check in with that and see if, if that makes a difference.

2 (3h 4m 10s):
But, you know, I, you know, I tend to sit for, I mean, I tend to, I I've designed my life so that I can spend a lot of time meditating without having to be formally meditating. Like, so, you know, I'll, you know, I'll go for a hike for two hours, right? And what I'm doing when I'm hiking is identical to what I'm doing when I'm meditating, you know, sitting in a chair, you know, doing nothing but meditate. So it's, yeah, I mean, I just, again, the, I'm very, I'm very interested in erasing the boundary between what people are calling meditation and, and the rest of life and that, so that's in, in, in teaching these things.

2 (3h 4m 54s):
I tend to emphasize that from the beginning because I, I think it's, it's very easy to set up to, to, to get gold by a bunch of assumptions that co that cause you to be very split in your sense of what your life is about. And like, I'm, I'm sort of banking my meditation over here because I'm, I'm, I'm meditating two hours a day diligently, and you know, this is gonna be really good for me. And then over here, this is the rest of my life, which is not nearly as wise or as useful or as, like, this is the stuff that is still the area of my problems.

2 (3h 5m 32s):
And I think it's useful to recognize you've got one, you've got one life, you know, and you've got this, this, this single condition of consciousness and its contents in every mode of life. And there's something to recognize about it. And you're always free to recognize that. And you truly, even in your dreams, right? I mean, it's just not this, it never stops. So that's, that's what I tend to emphasize.

0 (3h 5m 58s):
So earlier you told us that meditation is not about changing the content of conscious experience. And in a different podcast that you were on, I heard you say something to the effect of that, normally we are in our daily experience, and unless we are trained in meditation, unless we've dissolved this illusion of the gap between actor and self and observer, that we require certain sensory events to create collisions within us and with the natural world that sort of, you know, blast us into a different mode of being.

2 (3h 6m 37s):
Hmm.

0 (3h 6m 38s):
I want to use that as a way to frame up this idea that some things such as psychedelics, but also a very long hike, a very long fast, you know, who knows, a, a banquet, you know, different types of life experiences do exactly the opposite of what you're describing meditation does, which is that they actively change the content of our conscious experience so much so that we often remember those for the rest of our lives. Yeah. Could you tell us why psychedelics can be useful? And here I give the caveats that maybe you'll feel obligated to give as well, but this we're talking about use safely and responsibly, age appropriate, context appropriate, ideally with some clinical or other type of guidance, legality issues, obeyed, et cetera.

0 (3h 7m 30s):
All that stated, it was, psychedelics to me are an experience of altered perception, internal and external perception, altered spacetime relationship, somewhat dreamlike, I think it was Alan Hobson at Harvard for a long time, talked about the relationship between psychedelic like states and dreamlike states because of this distortion of spacetime dimensionality. And I haven't experimented with the much, I've been part of a clinical trial, three doses of M D M A, which certainly altered my, the, the quality of my conscious experience in ways that led to a lot of lasting and at least for me, valuable learning. Yeah, yeah. So what are your, what are your thoughts about psychedelics in terms of how they intersect with the discussion that we've been having and what utility do they play in recognition of the self or in other sorts of brain changes?

2 (3h 8m 23s):
Well, so yeah, let's just price in all those caveats that people can anticipate. These drugs are not without their risks. And it, it's one problem is that we have this single term drugs or psychedelics, which names many different types of substances, and they're not all the same and they're not so, like M D M A is not even technically a psychedelic, I think it has an immense therapeutic value. And it actually was my gateway drug to the, this this whole area of concern,

0 (3h 8m 56s):
Amphetamine pathogen, right? It's a sort of an amphetamine nano pathogen at

2 (3h 8m 59s):
The same time. It's, yeah, I mean it's often called

0 (3h 9m 2s):
Pathogen

2 (3h 9m 2s):
Excuse Pathogen.

0 (3h 9m 3s):
Pathogen, not pathogen. Yeah, no pathogen, yeah,

2 (3h 9m 6s):
An pathogen or antogen. It's, it's been called, but it doesn't tend to change perception in the way that classic psychedelics do. And it's, it's, it's also serotonergic, but it's, it's not, it has to be in, in some part differently. So than, I mean, even LSD and, and psilocybin, which are much more similar and, and classic psychedelics, both are also serotonergic, but they're not merely so, and they're, they're also different. And the, and the higher dose you take of these drugs, the more you at lower doses everything can kind of seem the same at higher doses. They, you know, they, they, they begin to diverge. And we can talk about the, the pharmacology if you wanted to, but the, I would just would just say that for many of us, I mean, certainly for me, psychedelics were indispensable in the beginning in proving to me that this was, that, that a first person interrogation of the mind was worth doing, you know?

2 (3h 10m 10s):
Cuz you know, I was somebody who, you know, a 17 or 18 before I had any real experience with, with mdm A or L s D or psilocybin. If you had taught me how to meditate at that point, I think I would've just bounced off the whole project. I think my mind was, I, I was just, I was so cerebral in my, just my engagement with anything. I was so skeptical of any of the, the spiritual, the religious and spiritual traditions that, that have given us most of our meditation talk, you know, that I think I just would've, and I know many of these people, like I, you know, I have, I have tried to teach, you know, Richard Dawkins to meditate and Daniel Dennis to meditate.

2 (3h 11m 1s):
I've ambushed them with meditation and very, you know, both, both in a group set in and, and one-on-one. Not, not Dan, but, but Richard, I, I, I ambushed on my own podcast with a guided meditation. And, and he just, you know, from his, he, you know, he closes his eyes, he looks inside and there's nothing of interest to see, right? Like, it's just, it's like, it's not, he doesn't have the, the, the conceptual interest in him that would, that would cause him to, to persist long enough to find out that there's a, there, there, right Now, this is not a problem with LSD or psilocybin or mdm a and I know that if I gave him a hundred micrograms of LSD or five grams of, of mushrooms or, you know, 20, you know, 25 milligrams of psilocybin, that's probably not the analogous dosage to the five grams of mushrooms.

2 (3h 11m 57s):
Five grams of mushrooms would be more than that. I forget what it is of, of mdma, maybe 120 milligrams of,

0 (3h 12m 7s):
I think the map dose is, which is the one that's under clinical trials is 125 milligrams with a option of a 75 milligram boost booster. Right? Right, right. Funny, I will remember that, yes.

2 (3h 12m 16s):
Strange, the facts that come to to hands Exactly, but there's no, there's just no possibility that nothing's gonna happen right now. Something with, with a psychedelic, with with mdm, a most people tend to have, certainly under any kind of guidance, tend to have a very positive, you know, pro-social experience. But, you know, with a psychedelic, you might have a, a a, a somewhat, you know, terrifying experience if you have quote, a bad trip, you know, if you, and I've certainly had those experiences on, on LSD and, and to some degree on psilocybin, but the prospect that nothing is gonna happen is just in, you know, a million, you know, nearly a million cases out of a million, just not in the cards.

2 (3h 13m 6s):
I mean, just, just neurophysiologically. Something's gonna happen with the requisite dose of, of, of one of these drugs. And if, if that thing that happens is, is psychologically at all normative and, you know, pleasant and interesting and valuable, which it is so much of the time, and certainly under the appropriate, you know, set and setting and and guidance, it can be, you know, a lot of the time for, you know, virtually everybody. Again, there are caveats. If you, if you're prone, if you think you have, you know, proclivity for schizophrenia or you know, bipolar disorder, this is almost certainly not for you, you know, and anyone doing a, the, the, the study is that like Johns Hopkins for, for the therapeutic effects of, of any of these drugs, they're, they're ruling out people with, you know, first degree relatives with, with any of these clinical conditions.

2 (3h 14m 5s):
But so for somebody like me at 18 who didn't know that this was an area of, of not only interest, but would it be the, you know, the, the center of gravity for the rest of his life, if only he could pay attention clearly enough to see that it could be right. I was someone who very likely, again, I don't know, I don't have the counterfactual in hand. I don't know what would've happened if, if someone had, you know, forced me to meditate for an hour at, at that point. But I know I wasn't interested in it until I took MDM a I know I wasn't having these kinds of experiences spontaneously that ge that showed me that there was an inner landscape that was worth exploring.

2 (3h 14m 51s):
I was a very hard-headed skeptic who was very interested in lots of things, but there was no alternative to me just thinking more about those things, right? I mean, the idea that there's some other way of grasping cognitively at the interesting parts of the world, beyond thinking about the world, right? I just, that just wouldn't have computed for me at all. Right? And if you had, so I just, I, and I literally have, I had, no one ever gave me a book to read or have had. I don't if you, the noun meditation very likely meant absolutely nothing to me before, before I took my first dose of, in this case it was mdma.

2 (3h 15m 37s):
So what the drug experience did for me is it just proved, I mean, so the, the limit, one of the limitations of a drug is that, you know, obviously no matter how good the experience, the drug drug wears off, and then you're back to, you know, more, in more or less your usual form, and now you have a memory of the experience. And it can be a fairly dim memory. I mean, some of these experiences are so discontinuous with normal waking consciousness that it can be like trying to remember a dream, you know, that just disappear, it degrades, you know, over the course of seconds, and then it could have been the most intense dream you've ever had. And for whatever reason, you can barely get a purchase on, you know, what it was about.

2 (3h 16m 17s):
And you know, there's some psychedelic experiences that are analogous to that. But for most people, most of the time there's a residue of this experience. And with something like mdm, they can be quite, quite vivid where you recognize, okay, there, there was a way of being that is quite different than what I'm tending to access by default. And it is different in, in ways that are just, you know, obviously better and, and, and psychologically more healthy. I mean, it's, it's possible to be healthy psychologically in a way that I, I never imagined, right?

2 (3h 17m 2s):
And then, then when you beg, then when you link it up to the traditional literature around any of this stuff, again, so much of it is shot through with, with superstition and other worldliness of, of religion. And I, you know, as you know, and I think your listen listeners probably know I've spent a lot of time criticizing all that, but there is a baby in the bathwater to all of that, right? It's like, it's, it's not that somebody like Jesus or the Buddha or any of the matriarchs and patriarchs of the world's religions, it's not that they are, were all conscious frauds or, you know, temporal lobe epileptics or like, there's, there's a, there's a pathological lens that you can put on top of all that.

2 (3h 17m 45s):
But once you have one of these experiences on psychedelics or on a drug like mdma, you know, that there's a, there, there, you know, that unconditional love is, is a possibility, right? You know, that that feeling truly one with nature, right? I mean, just so one with nature that you're, you could spend 10 hours in front of a tree and find that to be the most rewarding experience of your, of your life, right? That's a possible state of consciousness. Now, it may, it may not be the state of consciousness you want all the time. You know, you don't wanna be the crazy guy by the tree, you know, who can't have a conversation about anything else.

2 (3h 18m 25s):
But once you have one of these experiences, you recognize, okay, there's, there's some reason why I'm not having the biotic vision right now, and I can't even figure out how to aim my attention so as to have anything like it. And that's a problem, right? Because it's, it's available, right? And it's, it's the best, you know, it, it is among the best things that has ever happened to me, right? And now I'm can just only dimly remember what that was like. So how do I get back there on some level? And that, see, so that invites, again, a logic of changes, a logic of seeking changes in the contents of consciousness, which sets someone up for this, this protracted or seemingly protracted and, and, you know, fairly frustrating search to, you know, game their nervous system so as to have those kinds of experiences more and more.

2 (3h 19m 24s):
And again, it's not that that's in principle fruitless, but it is from the point of view of the kind of the, the core insight of, you know, the, the core wisdom of, you know, what I would take from a tradition like Buddhism, which is not, you know, it's not the only tradition that has given voice to this, but it's, i I would argue it's given it voice to it the most, in the most articulate way. Again, leaving aside any of the superstition and, and other worldliness and miracles that you, you know, we don't have to talk about at the moment. And you certainly don't need to endorse in order to be interested in this stuff. And so that's the, the bifurcation between the all of the utility of psychedelics, and what I'm talking about under the rubric of meditation is at this point of, okay, once you realize there's a, there, there, what do you do?

2 (3h 20m 17s):
And what's the logic by which you're led to do it? And it's possible, like if, if your only framework is the good experiences, the good feels you had on, on a whatever drug it was, and a a further discussion of, of like what that path of changes, you know, can look like. And that can become in a religious context, it can come in just a purely psychedelic context or, or you know, some combination of the two. I think you can be misled to, you can just be, you can be misled to just seek lots of peak experiences. You're just trying to string together a lot of peak experiences hoping they're gonna change you.

2 (3h 21m 1s):
Every one of which by, by definition is going to be impermanent, right? I mean, it's, it's first it wasn't there, then it's there and then it's no longer there. And then you've got a memory of it, right? The que the what I think it's what everyone really wants, whether they know it or not. And their right to want is a type of freedom that is compatible with even ordinary states of consciousness, which, which can ride along with them into extraordinary states of consciousness. I mean, so what I, I hadn't done psychedelics for 25 years. Cause I made, again, they were super useful for me in the beginning. Then I discovered meditation on the basis of, of those experiences got really into meditation and realized, okay, this is a much more, this really is the, you know, conceptually this makes much more sense to me.

2 (3h 21m 50s):
This is delivering the goods, you know, in terms of my experience. There's no need to keep having these, you know, seeking these peak experiences with, with drugs. But it had been, you know, 25 years since I had done that. And, and there was this resurgence in research on psychedelics, and I was being asked about psychedelics and I was talking about their utility for me. But again, these were distant memories. And so I, and there was also one type of psychedelic experience. I was, I was aware that I had never had, I had never done a high dose of mushrooms blindfolded, you know, like every, every mushroom trip I'd ever had, I'd been out in nature and interacting with, you know, you know, it was just been a very transformed sensory experience of the world and of other people.

2 (3h 22m 33s):
But I'd never done it alone, blindfolded, just purely, you know, inwardly directed. And at a high dosage, I'd done high doses of lsd, but, but not mushrooms. So I did that, you know, and it was very useful. And I, I I, I spoke about it on my podcast and there's actually, there's, I, I think if you search Sam Harris mushroom trip on YouTube, you get the, the the 19 minute version of that my describing that trip. It was incredibly useful. And, but what was, what was doubly useful was my mindfulness training in the context of that explosion of synesthesia. I mean, it was, it was, it was such an overwhelmingly strong experience and there were so many moments where it could have gone one way or the other based on my sense of just, okay, I'm gonna try to resist this.

2 (3h 23m 30s):
You know, it was like, it was, it was, it was in truth irresistible because it was just so much. But there were moments where I was aware of, okay, this is like letting go of self, you know, in this context is, is the thing that is going to, you know, turn to make the difference between heaven and hell here, you know? And because there's, there are experiences that are so extreme that you can't even tell if it's agony or ecstasy. It's just, it's just, it's everything is turned up to 11, right? And it, and the difference between the two, it's like, you know, the tipping point is just, it's on really is kind of a highwire act in some sense.

2 (3h 24m 11s):
You know, you could just fall to one side or the other. And yeah. So what I think people want is they certainly wanna be able to extract from the psychedelic experience wisdom that is applicable to ordinary states of consciousness. It's like, what is the thing you can realize in a moment of having a conversation with your child that isn't distracting you from that relationship? It's not a memory of when the world dissolved or, you know, when you were indistinguishable from the sky, but it's just a way of pa a way of be having free attention and unconditional love in this, you know, totally ordinary and potentially chaotic human experience, you know, which can be psychologically fraught and you can meet, you know, iterations of yourself that you don't like, that are, that are not equipping you to be the best possible person in that relationship.

2 (3h 25m 11s):
And what we want to do is cut through all of that and actually, you know, be in love with our lives and with the people in our lives more and more of the time. Yeah. And that's, there's, I'm not saying that the psych, you know, that repeated psychedelic journeys aren't, can't be integral to that project, but, but you know, that it can't, that the project can't be being high all the time, right? So whatever is extractable from that, the, the, the occasional, you know, psychedelic trip has got to be mapable into ordinary waking consciousness. And the point of con, the real point of contact does kinda run through this, you know, what I've been calling the illusion of the self.

2 (3h 25m 56s):
And again, it is, that part is discoverable without any changes in contents, right? So you don't have to suddenly feel the energy of your body be rush out and be continuous with the, you know, the ocean of energy that is not your body. Right? Like that's an experience that's there to be had, right? I mean, there's no doubt. But this, the truth is, I mean, just looking at this cup is just as formless and as mysterious as that right. When seen in the right way. And that's, and that's, that's what, you know, meditation encourages to, you know, want to recognize.

0 (3h 26m 36s):
Well, I share the experience that M D M A significantly altered my perception of what's possible in terms of an emotional stance towards self and others. Yeah, yeah. Including animals, right? Something that runs very deep for me, and that I had been kind of actively suppressing in anticipation of having me put my dog down. But also I, you know, I'm not, I don't know how to frame it except to say, you know, my lab did animal research for years and I was always very conflicted about it. Yeah, yeah. Because I love animals, and yet I wanted to understand the brain and we need to work on animal brains and we,

2 (3h 27m 10s):
What, rodents or,

0 (3h 27m 11s):
Or what, yeah, I'll be very direct about this. My lab, I've worked on many species. I've worked on mice and rats, I've worked on, admittedly, I've worked on, I'd done some cat experiments. I've worked on large non-human primates in including Macs. I no longer work on any of those species. I've worked on cuttlefish cephalopods, yeah. Yeah. A discussion for another time. Brilliant little amazing creatures, maybe, maybe as smart as us, or who knows, maybe smarter. And now I work on humans because I couldn't reconcile the challenge inside me, which was my love of animals and working on them.

0 (3h 27m 52s):
I just couldn't do it any longer. Yeah, I understand. And, and M D M A didn't set that transition. That transition actually had been set a lot earlier, and it was something I really grappled with. It didn't keep me up at night, but it was always in the back of my mind. Right. In any event, I hope what we discovered was, was worthwhile. But this is a, that's a bigger debate. Yeah, yeah. And I have strong feelings about this, and maybe it's a topic for a, an another podcast, but I'm very happy that now I work on humans and they can tell me if they wanna be part of the experiment or not. Right. And I, and I trust them and I trust their answers. I think that M D M A in its role as an empathogen, I think really did set a, an understanding of what's real and true.

0 (3h 28m 34s):
So think truths like that become, they don't, I felt that they didn't hit me square in the face. I just could, the feeling behind the conflict made itself evident and what to do about it made itself evident. Right? So I suppose M D M A did, did assist the transition to purely human research as opposed to animal research. The other thing that I noticed it did is it made it not scary to confront things that were scary to confront in my conscious life. And I could think about things in my conscious life, but it made, you know, it brought them close in a way that I could get closer and closer to the flame and then gain some understanding. I've, I've still amazed at how answers arrive both during the session and then the weeks and months that follow, if one puts the attention to it.

0 (3h 29m 19s):
I think that's why it's important to have a guide of some sort or to have some, some pseudo structure, because otherwise you can, one can get attached to the sounds in the room and just, and there's probably meaning there, but I wanted to do some deeper work. Right? Right. I have not had experience with psilocybin, at least not since my youth, and I don't recommend young people do it. I regret doing LSD and psilocybin as a young person. I don't say that for politically correct reasons or liability reasons. I just think my mind was not developed. Right. And, but I'm intrigued by something. So here's the question. How is it that psilocybin in particular and high dose psilocybin and the ego dissolution that people talk about on psilocybin, how do you think that lines up with some of the experiences that you've been describing for a adequate meditation practice?

0 (3h 30m 7s):
Yeah, yeah. Because that's something that I did not experience on M D M A. In fact, if anything I, I experienced for the first time what really feeling like a, a isolated container was, and the difference speech and how empathy and being bounded, having, in other words, good boundaries and empathy could be symbiotic. I experienced that for the first time there. And I, I do think that there is learning inside of these states that translates into everyday life when one is not on these states. And the last thing I'll say is no, I don't feel the, the impulse to go and do 20 more MDM a sessions. I, I think that the three as part of this study were very effective for me. And, you know, as they say, if you hear the calling again, yeah, you might do it, but I'm very curious about psilocybin in particular, right?

0 (3h 30m 51s):
And this notion of ego dissolution, because we've been talking about the self.

2 (3h 30m 55s):
Well, so, so there are different ways in which the sense of self can be eroded or expanded, or there's lots of experiences that can still have a kind of center to them, but be, you know, very novel and, and transformational. And one can reify those as a kind of goal state, right? And it's sort of the, there's a concept in, in Buddhism that I think is useful. It doesn't translate well to English, or it can, it can set up kind of false associations in English that, that are unfortunate. But, so there's a concept of emptiness in Buddhism, which sounds again, kind of gray and dispirit in, in English, but it's what it, the, what it's, it's sort of cognate terms are, are things like unconditioned, unconstrained, open centerless, right?

2 (3h 31m 56s):
So it's, it's, there's a, and, and that is, so when I'm talking about non-duality, when I'm talking about the, the loss of a sense of subject and then what's left in Buddhism, they, they would often describe what's left as emptiness. But emptiness is not a something. It's not a, it, it's, and it's importantly, it's not the same thing as unity, right? So it's not, it's not a oneness, right? Because it's, it's what's, what's let, when, when the center drops out of experience, it's not like you are suddenly merged with the cup, right? It's, but now granted that, you know, and this is where psilocybin and other psychedelics can give a false impression of, of, I think what the goal is.

2 (3h 32m 44s):
You can have kind seeming merging experience. You can have unity experiences on psychedelics, which can be quite powerful, especially with nature, with other people, and with nature where you can just feel like, you know, the, the, the energy of your body becomes incredibly vivid and powerful. It's just like, like you're just e everything is just, you know, buzzing with, you know, life energy. And then when you, you know, touch another person's hand or you touch a tree, there can be this sort of continuity of energy, which can be this overwhelming experience of, and again, this is a, a, a just a 20 megaton change in the contents of consciousness, right?

2 (3h 33m 30s):
This is like, this is a non-ordinary state of consciousness. But like this, this is a, give some indication of what, of how this happens. When I, back in the day when I was in my twenties and I was experimenting with, with this was lsd, but some friends and I, I decided we had this brilliant idea. We would, we would camp above mere woods and then take some, some LSD at dawn, and then walk down, you know, like a mile, I think from the campsite into the, into the actual proper grove of trees and, and, you know, commune with the giant redwoods, the tallest trees on earth. And so we dropped the acid at dawn and we start walking, but the acid came on, you know, almost immediately.

2 (3h 34m 11s):
And we didn't get, I mean, we got nowhere near the woods, and we got stopped by a tree that was just like a, an ordinary, you know, 20 foot oak tree, like the most boring tree in the world. And that tree absorbed like the next, next six hours of our, of our amazing conscious attention because it was just, you know, it was the tree of life. I mean, it was just, it could, could be no better tree. So these are, we're talking about non-ordinary states of con consciousness wherein a emerging with life and with with the world is possible. And that is a, so I'm not, I'm not saying that kind of experience isn't possible, but there's a sort of expanded self reification.

2 (3h 34m 52s):
It is, it is a kind of ego dissolution, but there's a, there's a kind of egoity that sort of goes along for the ride as well, or can go along for the ride and the real insight into emptiness, the real sort of centerless, you know, center of the bullseye is a recognition that that in some ways equalizes all experiences. I mean, again, it's, it's, it's just as available now in the, this ordinary, you know, podcasting experience as it is when you're merging hands on with a, an oak tree and you know, on, you know, 400 micrograms of acid. And this is, you know, the, this is the whole universe.

2 (3h 35m 35s):
And so it's, it's, it's the, it's the equality of those two experiences that that, that this concept of emptiness captures, which a con concept of oneness doesn't quite capture. Cuz oneness is really this, this peak experience of being dragged out of your, you know, your somethingness into a much bigger somethingness, right? Emptiness is just no center, right? And then everything is in its own place, right? There's still sights and sounds and sensations and thoughts and feelings, but there's just, there's no, there's no center and there's no clinging to anything. There's no clinging to identity, there's no clinging to the good stuff.

2 (3h 36m 15s):
There's no, there's no resistance to the bad stuff. There's no, so pleasant and unpleasant gets sort of strangely equalized. And there's this very, it's, it's, it's very expansive and it, and most importantly, it doesn't block anything. So yeah, if, if for whatever reason, if your nervous system is set up to have the, oh my God, I'm now merging with the tree experience, that's a, that's possible from the state of no center, right? And then, and, and on my, you know, that my recent, now not so recent three years ago, it was right before Covid, but my last, you know, big psychedelic experience, you know, there was, I was very much experiencing that.

2 (3h 36m 57s):
Whereas, you know, insofar as I, you know, you know, at the peak there was no me to remember any of any of this stuff. But, you know, insofar as I could experiment with, is this really different from anything else, you know, there is a kind of equalizing to the, the emptiness recognition even in the, in the presence of a completely transformed neurophysiology. And, and so that's, again, there's, there's a point of contact. I mean, the, the real point of contact between psychedelics and meditation for me is, but for my experiences on psychedelics, there's, I don't think there's just no way I would've had the free attention to be interested in, in the, in the project at all.

2 (3h 37m 42s):
And there are other aspects to the project. It's not just having this insight into selflessness. It's, it's all of the ethical ramifications of that. It's just like, what kind of person do you want to be? What are your values? What's what, what is a good life altogether? When you are talking about relationships and, you know, political engagement and the changes you can make in the world or not make, or it's just, you know, what kind of person do you want to be? There's, there's, there's a much larger consideration. And I mean, as you discovered, you know, an experience on mdm a can really, you both expand your model of what is possible and what is desirable, what is normative.

2 (3h 38m 25s):
I mean, just what kind of, you know, what kind of self do you want to be in the world? And it can also help you cut through things that are inhibiting you, you're actualizing any of those possibilities in ordinary waking consciousness.

0 (3h 38m 40s):
I've certainly found that to be the case. I mean, you raise a really important point, which is that once these learnings take place, these understandings take place inside of psychedelic journeys. And I do believe they translate to neuroplasticity. I do want to yeah, highlight the point for people. Oftentimes people say, oh, you know, this mushroom or this psychedelic, it opens plasticity. But of course, plasticity has to be directed someplace. Plasticity is just a process like, like walking or anything else underlying neural process. And I, I think it's impossible for me to understand what compartments of my life have been impacted by these three M D M A sessions.

0 (3h 39m 22s):
But I, in some ways I wonder whether or not, not just the transition away from animal research, but also a, a deeper realization of the love for learning and sharing information. You know, I won't go so far as to say this podcast is happening because of that particular session, but these things, they splay out into multiple domains of the self. And I do think that the key features that feel most important to me to mention are that it really identified true loves things that I truly love Yeah. And made me less, less cautious about feeling how intense those loves really are.

0 (3h 40m 2s):
And then also lower the inhibition point of exploring like, well, what that, what would that mean? Right, right. You know, and one of the reasons I bring this up and why I think it's so important that you mentioned, you know, some issues around politics and ethics, and many things have splayed out from your exploration of psychedelics, meditation, neuroscience, philosophy, you know, all the things that are you, and of course that's only a subset is that so much of what I hear and see so much of what I hear and see in the kind of self-help space contradicts itself and leads back to the, the origin without a lot of progress.

0 (3h 40m 42s):
And, and for instance, we hear, you know, absence makes the heart grow fonder, but then out of sight, out of mind, you hear about radical acceptance. But then what if it's radical acceptance of non-acceptance? Right? I mean, there are some experiences in people for which I radically accept the fact that I want nothing to do with them. Yeah, yeah. And does that some, am I supposed to transcend that? So these are the questions I think that keep a lot of people from exploring things like meditation, because they feel like, well, is the idea to just be okay with everything is radical acceptance, just like Right. Will just, you know, bulldoze me with, with, with things, even if they're, you know, and my goal is to somehow surpass the idea that they're harmful. And I don't think that's actually the way any of this stuff is supposed to work.

0 (3h 41m 24s):
Right. Although I don't claim to be the authority on it either. I, you know, I think notions of radical acceptance and radical honesty and, and any number of different sayings that one can find out there are really the, the most salient beacons and guides that most people have in order to try and navigate tough areas in their life, including the relationship to self, but others and political orientations. And so I feel like almost all those things can be used to anchor down in a stance that may or may not be informed or to open up to ideas. And so I think the, none of this can really be solved in a single practice, it sounds like. But it does seem to me, based on what you've told us today, is that only through a, a deep understanding of the self as it really is, as opposed to this illusion that you framed up, could we actually arrive at some answers about like, what's actually right for each and every one of us?

2 (3h 42m 21s):
Yeah, I mean, there's one generic answer that I think can be extracted both from psyched psychedelics and from meditation and just, just from just thinking more clearly about the nature of, of our lives. And it's, it's to become more process-oriented and to, and to cont be more and more sensitive to the, the Mir, the mi mirage like character of, of achieving our goals. Right now, I'm not, I'm not against achieving goals. I have a lot of goals. I, you know, I'm, I'm, you know, I'm very busy. There are lots of things I want to get done. And, and I, you know, I, I'm, I'm as satisfied as anyone to finish a project.

2 (3h 43m 1s):
And, but if you look at the time course of all of that, you know, fulfillment, and you, you, you, there's a few lessons that everyone I think has to draw. One is most of your life is spent in the process, right? Like the, like the moment at which the goal is, you know, fully conquered. That is just, I mean, that has a, you know, it's a tiny duration and it has a very short half life. And you are, it, it, the moment you, you arrive at it, it begins to recede because in the meantime, you have all these other goals that are, have appeared on the horizon. You've got people asking what you're gonna do next.

2 (3h 43m 42s):
And you, you, in some sense, if you're, if you're focused on goals, you really can, you can never arrive, right? And I think what we're, what we're looking, we're, we're all looking for in life. You know, whether we're ever thinking about psych taking psychedelics or, or practicing something like meditation, we're looking for good enough reasons to let our attention fully rest in the present right now. Like, so, I mean, that, that is the logic of success. Like the, the sense, the sense like, I've got all these things I want to do. If I could just get rich enough or fit enough or, you know, dial in my sleep well enough or, you know, improve my life and all these ways, get the right relationship, wouldn't it be great to be married or may, you know, I wanna start a family.

2 (3h 44m 30s):
I want all of these, these things. Why do I want these things? Right? I want these things because I'm telling myself this isn't, it's not that all of those things are wonderful, right? I'm not, I'm not discounting those relative forms of happiness or sources of happiness, cuz it's all completely valid to, it is completely valid to want those things. But in the pres, it's one thing is absolutely clear, it's possible to be miserable in the presence of all of those things, right? It's, and you can add, you can add great wealth and fame and everything on top of that. It's possible, it's possible to be absolutely miserable having everything any, anyone could seemingly want, right? And just have to open a newspaper to, to see people living out that predicament.

2 (3h 45m 13s):
Right? You know, offense, spectacularly wealthy, famous, healthy, successful people who could do anything they want in their in life apparently. And yet they're doing this thing that is completely dysfunctional in making them needlessly miserable. I won't name names. There's enough. Some people, people come to mind at the moment. So, so there is a, there is a, a clear dissociation between having everything and happiness that's possible. And it's also possible to have very little, you know, and almost nothing and to be quite happy. I mean, you might not have met these people, but you know, I have met people who have spent, you know, 10 years alone in a cave.

2 (3h 45m 54s):
Right? You know, and they come out of that cave, not floridly, neurotic or psychotic. They come outta that cave beaming with compassion and joy. And I mean, it's like they've been taking M D M A for 10 years, essentially, and they come outta the cave and now they're gonna talk about it, right? So, and I'm not necessarily recommending that project to anyone, but I'm just saying that is, that is a psychological possibility. So you have a double dissociation here, whether you can have everything and be miserable. You can have nothing and be beaming with, with happiness. So what is it that we actually want in all of our seeking to arrange the props in our lives and our, and our, and the story to have a, a, a convincing enough story to tell about ourselves that we are doing the right thing.

2 (3h 46m 37s):
What are, what is all of that effort predicated on is predicated on this desire and this expectation that if we could get all of this stuff in the right place and not have anything terrifying to worry about, right? Everyone we love is healthy for the moment, right? And we are healthy and it's, we've got something to look forward to on the weekend. And there's not some, there's not a, a, you know, a plumbing leak in the house that we have to immediately respond to. And we like our house and you know, our career is going fine and there's something good to watch on Netflix, and we have all of it right now. Can we just actually give up the war, right?

2 (3h 47m 18s):
Can we, can we, can we fully locate our, our sense of wellbeing in the present moment? Is it, can we relax the impulse to brood about the past or think anxiously about the future for long enough to discover that all of this here is enough, right? Because our life, our, our life is, we have this finite resource of, I mean, we, we absolutely have the finite resource of time, but within this, the, the finite resource, the continuum of time, we have the even more precious resource of free attention. That is that, that can find our, our, our, our fulfillment in the present, right?

2 (3h 48m 5s):
And because even if we're, even if we're guarding our time to do the things that are most important to us, we can spend all of that time wor regretting the past or, you know, anxiously expecting the future and telling, just balancing between past and future in our thinking about ourselves and our lives, and basically just dancing over the present and never making contact with it, right? So what we, I, I think what we want is a, a circumstance where attention can be located in the present in a way that's truly fulfilling. And unless you have had some kind of radical insight that allows you to do that on demand, you are in some sense hostage to the circumstances of your life to do it, do that for you.

2 (3h 48m 54s):
You're, you're constantly trying to, to engineer a state of the world that will propagate back on a state of self that will make the, the present moment good enough. And what meditation does, and psychedelics to some degree does this, but meditation very directly does this, it reverses the causality and, and, and lets you actually change, change states such that you can be fulfilled before anything happens, right? Nothing. Your, your happiness is no longer predicated on the next good thing happening. You can be in the presence of the next good or bad thing already being fulfilled and already being at peace.

2 (3h 49m 35s):
You know? I mean, there's a, there's a, I think there are misleading nouns. We can, we can throw it at what is left there, but it is, you know, you know, tranquility, peace, freedom, lack of contraction, lack of conflict. I mean like all of that is a a can be more and more of a default. And all of that is also compatible with deciding, you know, yeah, why not get in shape? Why not engage this project? Why not, you know, change your career? I mean, it's not, it's not that you need to be somebody who, who, to, to your point, you can notice all of these non-optimal things because no matter how much you meditate, you know, you're, you're very like very likely going to spend a lot of your time still lost in thought, still identified with it, and still wanting, still caring about the difference between dysfunction and, and normativity in your life, right?

2 (3h 50m 31s):
And it's just, the question is what can you, what can you locate when the question it is really, it's like how much can you puncture that seeking happiness project with the recognition that you're already free, right? That, that, that is, that's what, that's what meditation makes possible. You can keep just a thousand times a day letting some daylight into this search space. And so it's, but it is still compatible. Like you can, I mean, working out is a great frame in which to look at this because I mean, in working out when you're, when you, when you really work out, you know, I'm thinking, you know, mostly of, I mean it's really, it's anything but it's, you know, resistance training or cardio or something like jiujitsu, you're, you're, you're intentionally putting yourself in classically unpleasant circumstances.

2 (3h 51m 28s):
Physiologically. I mean, so if you, if you were, you know, if you imagine what it's like to do anything to failure, right? Well, if you just check in on what the, on what that is like at, at the level of sensation, I mean that is, is it's basically a me it feels like a medical emergency, right? Like if that, if you were having that experience for some other reason, like if you woke up in the middle of the night and felt what it feels like to be deadlifting, you know, on your 10th rep on a set where you're gonna, you know, you, you would fail at 11, right? Like, that is just, you know, that's an emergency. But because you understand what you're doing in the gym and you've sought it out and like, it's actually, it's actually something you like doing, right?

2 (3h 52m 8s):
And you can, you can get a, a real dopamine, you know, hit from, from doing it. That what, what you're doing when you're doing that is you're, you're owning a kind of a cl like you're, you're actually transforming a, a classically negative experience into something that's almost intrinsically positive, right? Certainly the net on it is positive you can do that. And, and, and, and being able to do that is more and more the experience of being actually at peace, even while exerting really intense effort in, in one direction.

2 (3h 52m 52s):
So you can be straining and I'm sure physiologically showing a lot of stress. I mean, I'm sure the, you know, cortisol is up and like, you know, you know, blood pressure pressures up, heart rate is certainly up. So it's like, it's, it is, as far as the body is concerned is stress as far as the eye can see, but you really can be deeply a economists and at peace because again, because of the frame around it, because of the concepts attached to it. Because you know what you're doing, you know why it's happening and you want it, you, so that, that, that's an attitude you can bring into other stressful things that take effort to accomplish. And so it's not, it's not that you just need to be a pushover when you learn how to meditate or when you take MDMA or you do any, you work on yourself in any of these ways, but what I think you, I think you want to find is you want to find your point of rest in the midst of, of a any struggle.

0 (3h 53m 49s):
Yeah. I would say that the certainly M D M A, but, and again, I have less experience with meditation and, but they really, I think put us ultimately in positions of what can only refer to as real strength. Yeah. These can make what before seem like impossible decisions or even concepts or emotional states to even think about for any period of time without deliberately distracting or avoiding in some other way. And be able to lean into those with, with open eyes. And I think that's, to me, that's my definition of strength. I don't know what other people consider, but Yep. There's a, there's definitely something real there in each case.

0 (3h 54m 30s):
This may seem like a divergence, but I and many other people are very curious about a recent decision that you made, which was to close your account on Twitter. You still have an Instagram account I noticed. Yeah. Yeah. But

2 (3h 54m 48s):
Although I never, I mean, my team manages that. I've, I've never,

0 (3h 54m 50s):
It's a lot friendlier over at Instagram. I've been there a lot

2 (3h 54m 53s):
Longer. I've never even seen seen it, so,

0 (3h 54m 54s):
Oh, it's pretty good actually, considering, imagine what would happen if you did do pay attention. They, they're doing a good job with it. But your decision to close your account on Twitter, I think grabbed a lot of eyes and ears. And there's a lot of questions about why it was a very large account, you know, it correlated with a number of things that, for the outsider, people might be wondering about, you know, new leadership, new, you know, people who had been booted off, brought back on, or at least invited back on, right? And so on. You are certainly not obligated to explain your behavior to me or anybody else for that matter, but I'm curious if you might share with us what the motivation was for taking the account down and, and how you feel in the absence of it.

0 (3h 55m 44s):
Yeah. Of, I mean, your thumbs presumably are, are freed up to do other things,

2 (3h 55m 48s):
Actually. Yeah, I was getting like an arthritic right thumb, I think, and I

0 (3h 55m 52s):
Think it's, if, if you don't mind sharing, I think there's a, there's a lot of curiosity about you and your, your routines. You've been very generous in sharing that, your knowledge and, but also kinda like what, what makes, what makes you tick? What motivates pretty big decisions like that. It wasn't a major platform for you, right?

2 (3h 56m 11s):
Yeah. So yeah, it was the, it was the only social media platform I've ever engaged. I mean, like you said, we, I have an Instagram, I have a Facebook account, but I never, never used those as platforms, right? Never on them. I never follow, I've never followed people and I've never, and all the posting has just come from, it's just marketing, you know, from my team. But Twitter was me. I mean, I, you know, for better or worse. And I began to feel more and more for worse. And it was, it was interesting because it was very, you know, I, I've, you know, I've talked about it a lot on my podcasts about just my, my love hate relationship with Twitter. Over the years, many good things came to me from Twitter and I, and I was, you know, I was following a lot of smart people and it, it had become my newsfeed and my first point of contact with, with information each day.

2 (3h 57m 1s):
And I was really attached to it just for that reason, just as a consumer of, of content. And then it was also a place where I was a, I genuinely wanted to communicate with people and react to things and, and, and, you know, you know, I would see some article that I thought was great and I would signal boost it, you know, to, to my people following me on Twitter. And that was rewarding. And I was, I, I could literally help people on Twitter. Like, I mean, there was a, there were, you know, there are people who I've raised lots of money, money for on Twitter just by, you know, signal boosting their GoFundMe. And, and so I was engaged in a way that seemed productive, but I was always worried that it was producing needless conflict for me, and was, was giving me a signal in my life that I was being lured into, responding to, and taken seriously that was out of proportion to, its, its representation of any opinion or set of opinions that I, I should be taken seriously.

2 (3h 58m 5s):
So I was noticing that, that, and again, this evolved over years. I mean, this, this long before long, long, long predated recent changes to, to Twitter, but I was noticing that many of the worst things that had happened for me professionally were first born on Twitter. I mean, just like, you know, some, some conflict I got into with somebody or something that I felt like I needed to podcast about in response to on Twitter. It, it's just so much of it. It was, it is either it is Genesis was Twitter or it's the, the, the further spin of it that became truly unpleasant and dysfunctional happened on Twitter.

2 (3h 58m 48s):
Like it was just, Twitter was part of the story when it was got really bad. And I've, I've had, you know, vacations that have gone sideways just because I got on Twitter and said something, then I had to produce a controversy that I had to respond to. And then I had to do a podcast about that and blah, and just, and it was just, okay, this is a mess. Right? And so at that point, you know, I I, you know, I have friends who, you know, also had big Twitter platforms who would, who would say, you know, why are you, you know, why are you responding to anything on Twitter? Just tweet and ghost, you know, just due to having, and like Joe Rogan sat me down, ghost tried to get, get, you know, gimme a, talking to as did Bill Moore, and both of them engage Twitter in that way.

2 (3h 59m 29s):
I mean, they, I think they basically never look at their at mentions. They never see what's coming back at them. They just, you know, they use it effectively. The way I use or don't even use Instagram or Facebook. I mean, I don't even see what's going out there in, in my name. And so I, I could essentially do that for myself on Twitter presumably. And I did that for some periods of time. But then I would continually decide, okay, now it's all balanced again, maybe I can just communicate here. Cause it was very tempting for me to communicate with people because I would see somebody, you know, clearly misunderstanding something I had said on my podcast. And I think like, why not clarify this misunderstanding, right?

2 (4h 0m 9s):
And in, and my efforts to do that almost invariably produced a this, I mean, sometimes it was a kind of a meandering process of, of discovery, but often it was just kind of a stark confrontation with what appeared to me to be just lunacy and malevolence on a scale that I never encounter elsewhere in my life. Like, I never meet these people in life, right? And yet I was meeting these people by the tens of thousands on Twitter. And so it, what the thing that began to worry me about it, and again, this, I understand that people have the opposite experience on Twitter.

2 (4h 0m 51s):
I mean, depending on what you're putting out and what you're, you know, the kinds of topics you're touching, you could have just nothing but love coming back at you on Twitter. Right? But because I'm very essentially in the center politically, and because I'm, you know, on my, this is now on my podcast, this is not in the Waking Up app. I'm often criticizing the far left and criticizing the far right. I'm basically pissing off everyone some of the time, right? So, and it's very different if, if you're only criticizing the left, you hate, no doubt you get hate from the left, but you have all the people on the right who just reflexively and tribally are, are expressing their solidarity for you, right?

2 (4h 1m 34s):
And who are, who are dunking on your enemies for you. And you know, when, when your enemies come out of the woodwork, and if you're only criticizing the right, I'm sure you get a lot of pain from the right, but you've got the people on the left who are tribally identified with the left, who are, who are just going to reflexively defend you if you're in the center criticizing the left as hard as anyone on the right, ever criticize the left criticizes the left. And you're also criticizing the right, as hard as anyone on the left criticizes the right, you're getting hate from both sides all the time. And no one is reflect reflexively and tribally defending you because you pissed them off last time.

2 (4h 2m 14s):
Like you might be getting hate from the left now. And the people on the right agree with you, but they can't forget the thing you said about Trump on that podcast, you know, you know, two podcasts ago. So they're not gonna defend you. And so what I, I basically created hell for myself on Twitter because it was, I just, you know, it was just a theater of, it was just pure cacophony most of the time. And what I was seeing was, I mean, like, there's no way there's this many psychopaths in the world, but I was seeing psychopaths everywhere. I was seeing like the most malicious dishonesty and, you know, just goal post moving and hypocrisy.

2 (4h 2m 54s):
And, and I mean, it was just, I mean, some of it's trolling and some of it's real confusion and some of it is psychopathy, but it's like, it was so dark that I worried that it was actually giving me a, a very negative and sticky view of humanity. That was, I mean, one, it was, you know, I, I think it isn't inaccurate, but two, I I i, it was, it was something I was returning to so much because again, I was checking Twitter, you know, at least a dozen times a day. And I'm sure there was some days where I checked it a hundred times a day. I mean, it was, it was, again, it was my main source of information.

2 (4h 3m 35s):
I was constantly reading articles and, and then putting my own stuff out that it became this kind of funhouse mirror in which I was looking at the, the most grotesque side of, of humanity and feeling, you know, implicated in, in ways that were important, important because it was just, it was reputationally important or seemed to be important. I know a lot of these people, it's not, these weren't just faceless trolls. These are, these are people with whom I have had relationships. And in some cases friendships who, because of what, you know, largely Trump and Covid did to our political landscape in the last, you know, half a dozen years, were beginning to act in ways that that that seemed, you know, starkly dishonest and, and, you know, crazy making to me.

2 (4h 4m 28s):
So I was just noticing that I was forming a view of people who I actually have had dinner with that was way more negative based on their Twitter behavior than I think would ever be justified by any way they would behave in life with me. You know? I mean, like never, I was never gonna have a face-to-face encounter with any of these people that was this malicious and dishonest and gaslighting and weird, right? As, as was what was happening hourly on Twitter, right? And so I just began to become more sensitive to what this was, you know, just the residue of all of this in my life and how, and just how often the worst thing that, the worst thing about me in my relationship with the people in my life, you know, they just talking to my wife or my kids, was just the fact that I had been on Twitter at some point in the, you know, previously in the, in the previous hour.

2 (4h 5m 24s):
And there was some residue of that, you know, if, you know, in my interaction with them, you know, it's like, what, you know, what are you stressed out about? What are you annoyed about? What are you pissed off about? You know, what can't you get out of your head? What is the thing that you now feel like you need to spend the next week of your life focused on? Because it went so sideways for you. All of that was Twitter, you know, literally, I mean, literally a hundred percent of that was Twitter. And, and so I just, at one point, I, it was actually on Thanksgiving day, I just looked at this and I just, just, I mean, there was very little thought went into it. I mean, literally, I mean, I, you know, there was more thought in involved in you, you know, whether I wanted coffee when you asked me, when I showed up here, I mean, it was just like, at a certain point I just, I just saw it and I just, I just ripped the bandaid off.

2 (4h 6m 11s):
And, and yeah, so, and to answer your other question, it's been been almost wholly po positive as you might expect, given the, the litany of, of pain and discomfort I just ran through. But I mean, it is also, it's, it's surprising to recognize how much of a presence it was in my life, given the sense of what is now missing. I mean, it's like, there, there's, it was, there's no question there was a, there's a kind of an addictive component to it. And when you see, I mean, like, when I look at what Elon's doing on Twitter, forget about his ownership of it. And I mean, I'm not, you know, I've got a lot to say about, you know, the choices he's making for the platform, but just his personal use of it is just so obviously an expression of, I mean, I don't know if addiction is the, you know, clinically appropriate term, but, you know, his dysfunctional attachment to tweet to using the platform, forget, again, forget about changing it and owning it, but just, hi, the, just the degree to which it is pointlessly disrupting the life of one of the most productive people in any generation.

2 (4h 7m 27s):
I, that was also instructive to me. Cause I, cause I know Ilan and I, I, I, I just, you know, he's from my, you know, of kind of a friend's eye view of the situation. It's so obviously not good for him that he's spending this much time on Twitter that I, I just brought that back to me. It's like, well, if it's not, if, if this is what is doing to Elon and he's got all these other things he could be doing with his attention, how much of my use of Twitter is actually, you know, a good idea and, you know, optimized to my wellbeing and the wellbeing of the people around me. And so anyway, it was, there was an addictive component to it, I think. And so when that got stripped off, I, you know, I, I do notice that there's, I mean, there's some, there are times I pick up my phone and I realize this is like the old me picking up my phone for, for a reason that no longer exists.

2 (4h 8m 19s):
Cause there's not that much, I, you know, I, you know, I have a Slack channel with my team and I've got email, obviously, but it's like, that is not much of what I was doing with my phone, really in the end. And so, like, it's just my phone is much less of a presence in my life. And, and so it's, it's almost wholly good. But yeah, it is, you know, there's, I think there is some danger in, or some, some possible danger in losing touch with certain aspects of culture, which again, I'm not even sure. I mean, there's this question of, you know, how much is Twitter real life and how much is it just a mass delusion? I don't know. But insofar as it actually matter is what happens on Twitter, or insofar as I was actually getting a news diet, which I'm not gonna be able to recapitulate for myself, or I'm just not in fact going to re recapitulate for myself even if I could, if any of that matters.

2 (4h 9m 15s):
I haven't discovered that yet. But it's, yeah, I mean, there's, it was taking up an immense amount of bandwidth and it's, it's impressive. I mean, I, I, I think I said I, I, you know, it was like I amputated a, a a phantom limb, right? Like, it was not a real limb, but it was, it was a, this continuous presence in my life that, that it is, it's weirded. It actually relates to the concept of self in, in surprising ways because I've, I felt there was a part of myself that existed on Twitter, and I, you know, I I just performed a, a suicide of that, that self, right? Like that's, this is ending right now. And, you know, there's no residue, there's nothing to go back and check. There's just, it's gone.

2 (4h 9m 56s):
And I didn't even, I didn't go back and look at my, like, what's interesting to consider is that, you know, I'd been on Twitter for 12 years. I don't keep a journal. I mean, Twitter, my timeline would've been a kind of journal. I could've gone back to a specific hour and a specific day and looked at what I was paying attention to. I mean, that could've been an interesting record of just who I've been for a decade. And I, and probably a pretty humbling record of who I've been for a decade in terms of the kinds of things that captivated my attention. But I didn't even, you know, I didn't even think to go insta, you know, nostalgically, just look at any of that or see if any of it was worth saving or archiving or think it just, just delete, you know?

2 (4h 10m 37s):
And it was, and so my, my actual sense of who I am and my engagement with, with my audience, my, you know, the, the world of people who could potentially know me, like what does it mean to be, to have a platform? You know, where do I exist digitally? My sense of of all of that got truncated in a, in a way that is much less noisy. I mean, it's amazing how much can't get fucked up now in my life. Like, it's like with Twitter, almost anything could happen, right?

2 (4h 11m 18s):
Like, like the next tweet was always an opportunity to massively complicate my life. There is no analogous space for me now. And, you know, so what I'm gonna say on your podcast, what I'm gonna say on my own podcast, what I'm gonna write next, that's much more, you know, deliberative and the opportunities to take my foot outta my mouth or to reconsider all, you know, whether anything, any of this is worth it, is it worth, is this the hill I really want to die on now? It, it's much more, can be much more considered. And I mean, I think all of that's to the good, but even more important than that is there's not, I'm not getting this continuous signal that is always inviting a response, whether on Twitter or on my own podcast, or, you know, anywhere else.

2 (4h 12m 12s):
And it's just much less noisy. I mean, life is much less noisy and, and cluttered. And that's, you know, that that is, it definitely feels better, right? Just that's a hundred percent better.

0 (4h 12m 25s):
I'm happy to hear that. I know a number of people miss you there, but you sound happy. I sense some genuine happiness in it. Oh yeah. Several things come to mind. First of all, thank you for sharing your, your rationale there. Sure. And how it went, I think for a lot of people, I think, oh, you must have like, walked around in circles for hours talking about everything news. No, it was delete as many good decisions are executed, right? Yeah. You know, I'm a big fan of Cal Newport's work, deep work. Yeah. In many ways Cal's, I've never met him, but we know other, through the, the internet space, he really ahead of his time with this notion of deep work and limiting distractions. I think he's even got a book about a world without email or something going really extreme.

2 (4h 13m 8s):
So he had, I mean, he de deserves some credit cuz he had been somewhat approximate cause to this. He had been on my podcast and he had, had encouraged me to delete Twitter. Ah, okay. Cause I had been, I had been sort of in the, in reaching some kind of, you know, crisis point with it prior to that podcast. And so we've talked about it and I hadn't, I had recorded that podcast but hadn't released, I actually recorded the podcast the day before. I wound up deleting Twitter, but hadn't yet released it. So in my podcast with him, you know, in the intro to it, I, I then give a postmortem on my deleting it. But he was, yeah, he was one of the last people who was in my head around these issues. And I had, I actually, you know, it was, that was not by accent.

2 (4h 13m 48s):
I had invited him on the podcast cuz I increasingly wanted to think about, you know, whether this was totally dysfunctional.

0 (4h 13m 55s):
Well, I'm a big fan of Cal Newport and I, I am on social media, I'm on Twitter. I had some, you know, high friction interactions there. And I have a process for dealing with those. I tend to avoid high friction confrontations online, but Instagram is a much friendlier place, by the way, if, if you wanted to come over to where like the nice kids, like the, the cool kids actually hang out. Strange,

2 (4h 14m 18s):
Strangely, I'm not looking for a substitute.

0 (4h 14m 20s):
Okay. Well, you know, it's a, I didn't, don't let me entice you over there. You're, but I think that this notion of, of really being a able to access what Cal calls deep work, what Rick Rubin talks about, you know, being able to touch the source of cre creativity and focus and on a regular basis does require that one have certain types of, and in some cases zero interaction with certain platforms that merely being on a platform and blocking people that would just won't provide. I think a lot of energy opens up and I'm fascinated by this concept of energy. I mean, we only have so much energy Yeah. Neural energy to devote. Yeah. And in many ways what you described, there's really, I think, striking parallels to what we've been talking about all along these last hours, which is that sometimes the thing that feels so, so powerful that has such a gravitational pull and that we think this is experience, this is life, this is just the way it is actually is an illusion.

0 (4h 15m 16s):
And when you step away from it, you realize that there's this whole other dimension of interactions that yeah, that was available all along, but that we for whatever reason we're intervening in by way of our reflexive distracted behavior. So I think there's a, there's a, there's a poetry there.

2 (4h 15m 33s):
No, I was a hard case, but yeah, I, I got religion on this point and it's a, it's a good change.

0 (4h 15m 39s):
Well, Sam, I want to say a couple of things. First of all, every time you talk, I learn so much. And that's, you know, in the dimensions of neuroscience, even hardcore neural circuitry type stuff, which I'm, you know, is sort of my home when you talk about philosophy or, or meditation or psychedelics and even politics, some, a topic that I'm, you know, woefully undereducated in. But you have this amazing ability to, to blend and, and synergize across things. And I think today what what occurs to me is that not only is that no accident because of your training and your, the rigor and the depth at which you've explored these different topics, but also your openness to it.

0 (4h 16m 27s):
But I think, at least for me above all, is because I think you are able to encapsulate this idea of the self and, and the different ways in which we each and all can potentially interact with the environment and, and our inner landscape. Your description of meditation, I have to say is now has forever changed the way I think about meditation. I would no longer just think of it as a perceptual exercise. I, on the podcast I've been talking about as something to, to do for these various benefits, the benefit set of more focus at their stress at seller of which certainly exists. But what you described today has a, has such an allure and a and a holds such a promise that, as I mentioned, I'm certainly going to change my behavior and, and I know I'm speaking on behalf of many, many people.

0 (4h 17m 16s):
And I just want to extend my thanks for your coming here today to teach us even more. Because of course you have your podcast and the, the app and the waking up app and the fact that regardless of the political landscapes, regardless of the, what neuroscience feels about psychedelics or the where things are at any point in time, you strike me as somebody who is very committed to sharing knowledge and thoughtful, deep discourse so that people can benefit. And there are very few people like you. In fact, there's probably only just one. And so I feel very grateful to be sitting across the table from 'em for these last hours.

2 (4h 17m 57s):
Oh, nice, nice. Well, I, I really enjoyed this and I wanna congratulate you on what you've built here because your podcast is, is everywhere. And I just, I'm con you know, I'm a, a fan and even more than that, I'm continually seeing the evidence of you reaching people and and benefiting people. And it's just, it's really, I mean like this is the one of the best examples of, you know, new media just carving outta space that, that people didn't really know existed. You know, cuz like this is not television, it's not radio, it's not, and, and all of a sudden people have time to hear a conversation of great length that goes into, you know, nitty gritty scientific detail on, you know, hormones.

2 (4h 18m 40s):
I mean, like, who would've thought that was even possible? And so yeah, I was just, congratulations, it's fantastic to see and I'm just very happy for the opportunity to talk to you and, and your people.

0 (4h 18m 51s):
Well, thank you. It's very gratifying to hear and I feel very blessed in no small part because of our conversation today. Thank

2 (4h 18m 59s):
You so much. Nice. Well, to be continued

0 (4h 19m 0s):
To be continued. We'll do it again. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And again and again, thank you for joining me today for my discussion with Dr. Sam Harris. I hope you found it to be as enlightening as I did. And be sure to check out the Waking Up app that Dr. Sam Harris has made free to any Huberman Lab listeners for 30 days by going to waking up.com/huberman. Please also check out his incredible podcast, the Making Sense podcast, and you can find any number of Sam different books on meditation, consciousness, philosophy, neuroscience, politics, and more. You can find links to those books by going to sam harris.org. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel.

0 (4h 19m 40s):
That's the best zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for us, or comments or topics that you'd like me to cover, or guess you'd like me to invite onto the huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comment section on YouTube. I do read all the comments. Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. Not so much during today's episode, but on many episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them for things like enhancing the depth and quality of sleep, for enhancing focus, and for hormone support and many other aspects of mental health, physical health and performance.

0 (4h 20m 26s):
The huberman Lab Podcast is proud to announce that we are now partnered with momentous supplements because momentous supplements are of the very highest quality they ship internationally, and they have single ingredient formulations, which turns out to be important if you're going to develop the most cost effective and biologically effective supplementation regimen. If you'd like to access the supplements discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast, you can go to live Momentus spelled O u s, so live momentus.com/huberman. If you're not already following us on social media, we are huberman Lab on Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Facebook, and all of those places. I talk about science and science related tools, some of which overlap with the content of the Huberman Lab podcast, but much of which is distinct, distinct from the content of the Huberman Lab podcast.

0 (4h 21m 7s):
Again, it's Huberman Lab on all social media handles, all platforms, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn. If you haven't already subscribed to our Neural Network newsletter, that's a monthly newsletter. It's completely zero cost and includes summaries of podcast episodes, as well as toolkits for things like enhancing your sleep, enhancing your focus and ability to learn hormone support, fitness, and on and on. You simply go to huberman lab.com, go to the menu, click on the menu, and scroll down to newsletter, provide your email, and you can start receiving our monthly neural Network newsletter. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion with Dr. Sam Harris, all about meditation, consciousness free will, psychedelics, social media, and much, much more.

0 (4h 21m 48s):
And as always, thank you for your interest in science.