0 (0s):
Welcome to the Duberman lab podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford school of medicine. Today. My guest is Dr. David Berson, professor of medical science, neurobiology, and ophthalmology at brown university. Dr. Burson's laboratory is credited with discovering the cells in the eye that set your circadian rhythms. These are the so-called intrinsically photosensitive melanopsin cells. And while that's a mouthful, all you need to know for sake of this introduction is that those are the cells that inform your brain and body about the time of day.

0 (41s):
Dr. Burson's laboratory has also made a number of other important discoveries about how we convert our perceptions of the outside world into motor action. More personally, Dr. Berson has been my go-to resource for all things neuroscience for nearly two decades. I knew of his reputation as a spectacular researcher for a long period of time. And then many years ago, I cold called him out of the blue. I basically corralled them into a long conversation over the phone after which he invited me out to brown, and we've been discussing neuroscience and how the brain works and the emerging new technologies and the emerging new concepts in neuroscience for a very long time.

0 (1m 21s):
Now you're going to realize today why Dr. Berson is my go-to source. He has an exceptionally clear and organized view of how the nervous system works. You know, there are many, many parts of the nervous system, different nuclei and connections and circuits and chemicals and so forth, but it takes a special kind of person to be able to organize that information into a structured and logical framework that can allow us to make sense of how we function in terms of what we feel, what we experience, how we move through the world. Dr. Burson is truly one of a kind in his ability to synthesize and organize and communicate that information. And I give him credit as one of my mentors and one of the people that I respect most in the field of science and medical science generally today, Dr.

0 (2m 6s):
Berson takes us on a journey from the periphery of the nervous system, meaning from the outside deep into the nervous system layer by layer structure, by structure circuit, by circuit, making clear to us how each of these individual circuits work and how they work together as a whole. It's a really magnificent description that you simply cannot get from any textbook, from any popular book. And frankly, as far as I know, from any podcasts that currently exists out there. So it's a real gift to have this opportunity to learn from Dr. Berson. Again, I consider him my mentor in the field of learning and teaching neuroscience. And I'm excited for you to learn from him. One thing is for certain, by the end of this podcast, you will know far more about how your nervous system works.

0 (2m 50s):
Then the vast majority of people out there, including many expert biologists and neuroscientists, before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public in keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

AG1 (3m 12s):
Our first sponsor is athletic greens. Athletic greens is an all-in-one vitamin mineral probiotic drink. I've been taking athletic greens every day since 2012. So I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started taking athletic greens and the reason I still take athletic greens is that it covers all of my vitamin mineral and probiotic needs. Nowadays. There's a lot of data out there pointing to the fact that a healthy gut microbiome, literally little microbes that live in our gut that are good for us is important to support our immune system, our nervous system, our endocrine system, and various aspects of our immediate and long-term health with athletic greens. I get all the vitamins and minerals that I need. Plus the probiotics ensure a healthy gut microbiome. It also tastes really good. I mix mine up with some water, a little bit of lemon juice. I'll have that early in the day. And sometimes a second time later in the day as well, it's compatible with intermittent fasting. It's compatible with vegan diets, with keto diets and essentially every diet that you could possibly imagine out there. It's also filled with adaptogens for recovery. It has digestive enzymes for gut health, and it has a number of other things that support the immune system. If you'd like to try athletic greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman to claim their special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs that make it really easy to mix up athletic greens while you're on the road. And they'll give you a year supply of vitamin D three K two. There's now a lot of evidence that vitamin D three supports a huge number of metabolic factors. Immune system factors, endocrine factors. Basically we need vitamin D three. We can get it from the sun, but many people are deficient in vitamin D three. Even if they are getting what they think is sufficient sunlight and K2 is important for cardiovascular health. So again, if you go to athleticgreens.com/huberman, you can claim their special offer the five free travel packs. Plus the year supply of vitamin D three K2

Inside Tracker (4m 59s):
today's podcast is also brought to us by inside tracker. Inside tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. And now with the advent of modern DNA tests, you can also get information about how your specific genes are impacting your immediate and long-term health. Now a problem with a lot of blood tests and DNA tests out there is you get the numbers back, but you don't know what to do with those numbers with inside tracker. They make it very simple to figure out what to do to bring those numbers into the ranges that are right for you. They have a dashboard that's very easy to use. You can see the numbers from your blood and or DNA tests, and it will point to specific lifestyle factors, nutritional factors, as well as supplementation, maybe even prescription factors. That would be right for you to bring the numbers into range that are ideal for your immediate and long-term health goals. Another feature that inside tracker has is their inner age test. This test shows you what your biological age is and compares that to your chronological age and what you can do to improve your biological age, which of course is the important number. If you'd like to try inside tracker, you can visit inside tracker.com/huberman to get 25% off any of inside trackers plans. Also an interview I did with longevity research doctor in inside trackers founder, Dr. Gill, blender is out now on their podcast. The longevity by design podcast and a link to that interview can be found in today's show notes.

Magic Spoon Cereal (6m 33s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by magic spoon. Magic spoon is a zero sugar grain-free keto friendly cereal. I don't follow a ketogenic diet. The way that I eat is basically geared toward feeling alert when I want to be alert and feeling sleepy when I want to go to sleep, which for me means fasting until about 11:00 AM or noon. Most days, then I eat low carb during the day. So I'll have some meat or fish or chicken and some salad. That's what works for me. And in the afternoon I remain on a more or less low carb diet. And then in the evening I eat pastas and things primarily, and I throttle back on the protein and that's what allows me to fall asleep at night. That's just what works for me. So if I want a snack in the afternoon, I want that to be a ketogenic or low carb snack. And that snack these days is magic spoon. Magic spoon is really terrific. It has zero grams of sugar, 13 to 14 grams of protein, and only four net grams of carbohydrates in each serving. It's really delicious. They have a number of different flavors like Coco, fruity, peanut butter, and frosted. I particularly like frosted tastes like donuts. And I really like donuts, although I try not to eat donuts too often, if ever what I do lately, as I take magic spoon, I put it in some Bulgarian yogurt, which is really good. And I mix that up. I put those in there and sometimes I put some cinnamon on them. And as I'm describing this, I'm getting hungry for magic spoon. So if you want to try magic spoon, you can go to magic spoon.com/kuperman to get their variety pack. Just use the promo code Huberman at checkout to get $5 off your order. Again, that's magic spoon.com/huberman, and use the code Huberman to get $5 off.

0 (8m 2s):
And now for my discussion with Dr. David Berson. Welcome. Thank

1 (8m 6s):
You. Yeah, so

0 (8m 7s):
Nice to be here. Great to have you for more than 20 years, you've been my go-to source for all things nervous system, how it works, how it's structured. So today I want to ask you some questions about that. I think people would gain a lot of insight into this machine that makes them think and feel and see et cetera, if you would, could you tell us how we see, you know, a photon of light enters the eye? What happens, right? I mean, how is it that I look outside? I see a truck drive by, or I look on the wall. I see a photo of my dog. How does that work? Right.

1 (8m 47s):
So this is an old question, obviously. And clearly in the end, the reason you have a visual experience is that your brain is not some pattern of activity that it associates with the input from the periphery, but you can have a visual experience with no input from the periphery as well. When you're dreaming, you're seeing things that aren't coming through your eyes

0 (9m 7s):
Or those memories,

1 (9m 10s):
I would say in a sense, they may reflect your visual experience. They're not necessarily specific visual memories, but of course they can be. But the point is that the experience of seeing is actually a brain phenomenon, but of course, under normal circumstances, we see the world because we're looking at it and we're using our eyes to look at it. And fundamentally, when we're looking at the exterior world, it's what the retina is telling the brain that matters. So there are cells called ganglion cells. These are neurons that are the key cells for communicating between eye and brain. The eye is like the camera is detecting the initial image, doing some initial processing. And then that signal gets sent back to the brain proper.

1 (9m 51s):
And of course, it's there at the level of the cortex that we have in this conscious visual experience. There are many other places in the brain that get visual input as well, doing other things with that kind of information. So

0 (10m 3s):
I get a lot of questions about color, vision, if you would, could you explain how is it that we can perceive reds and greens and blues and things of that sort,

1 (10m 13s):
Right? So the first thing to understand about light is that it's just a form of electromagnetic radiation. It's vibrating, it's also lighting, but

0 (10m 24s):
When you say it's vibrating sauce, Lang you mean that photons are actually moving

1 (10m 28s):
Well, in a sense, photons are, there's certainly moving through space. We think about photons as particles, and that's one way of thinking about light, but we can also think of it as a wave. Like a radio wave either way is acceptable and the radio waves have frequencies. Like the frequency is on your radio dial and certain frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum can be detected by neurons in the retina. Those are the things we see, but there are still different wavelengths within the light that can be seen by the eye. And those different wavelengths are unpacked in a sense or decoded by the nervous system to lead to our experience of color, essentially different wavelengths.

1 (11m 9s):
Give us the sensation of different colors through the auspices of different neurons that are tuned to different wavelengths of light

0 (11m 18s):
When a photon. So when a little bit of light hits my eye, it goes in the photo receptors, convert that into electrical signal, right? How is it that a given photon of light gives me the perception eventually leaves the perception of red versus green versus blue,

1 (11m 35s):
Right? So if you imagine that in the first layer of the retina where this transformation occurs from electromagnetic radiation, into neural signals, that you have different kinds of sensitive cells that are expressing, they're making different molecules within themselves for this express purpose of absorbing photons, which is the first step in the process of seeing how it turns out that altogether, there are about five proteins like this that we need to think about in the typical retina, but for seeing color really it's three of them. So there are three different proteins, each absorbs light with a different preferred frequency.

1 (12m 18s):
And then the nervous system keeps track of those signals comparison, contrast them to extract some understanding of the wavelength composition of light. So you can see just by looking at a landscape, oh, it must be late in the day because things are looking golden. That's all, you know, a function of are absorbing the light, that's coming from the world and interpreting that with our brain because of the different composition of the, the, the light that's reaching our eyes.

0 (12m 46s):
Is it fair to assume that my perception of red is the same as your perception of red? Well, that's a great question and that mine is better. I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding.

1 (12m 55s):
It's a great question. It's a deep philosophical question. It's a question that really probably can't even ultimately be answered by the usual empirical scientific processes. Cause it's really about, you know, an individual's experience. What we can say is that the biological mechanisms that we think are important for seeing color, for example, seem to be very highly similar from one individual to the next, whether it be human beings or other animals. And so we think that the physiological process looks very similar on the front end, but, you know, once you're at the level of perception or understanding or experience, that's something that's a little bit tougher to nail down with the sorts of, you know, scientific approaches that we approach biological vision.

1 (13m 45s):
Let's say

0 (13m 46s):
You mentioned that there are five different cone types, essentially cones being the cells that absorb light of different wavelengths. I often wondered when I had my dog, what he saw and how his vision differs from our vision. And certainly there are animals that can see things that we can't see, right? What are some of the more outrageous examples of that,

1 (14m 9s):
Of seeing things

0 (14m 11s):
And in the extreme, you know, dogs I'm guessing see reds more as oranges, is that right? Because they don't have these, the same array of, of neurons that we have for, for seeing

1 (14m 23s):
Color, right? So the first thing is it's not really five types of colons. There are really three types of cones. And if you look at the way that color vision is thought to work, you can sort of see that it has to be three different signals. There are a couple of other types of pigments. One is really mostly for dim light vision when you're walking around in a moonless night and you're seeing things with very low light, that's the rod cell that uses a zone pigment. And then there's another class of, we'll probably talk about it a little bit later. This melanoma

0 (14m 54s):
Pigment, I thought you were referring to like ultraviolet and infrared and

1 (14m 58s):
Right. So in the case of a typical, well, let's put it this way in, in human beings. Most of us have three con types and we can see colors that re that, that stem from that in most mammals, including your dog or your cat, there really are only two corn types. And that limits the kind of vision that they can have in the domain of wavelength or color, as we'd say. So really a dog sees the world kind of like a particular kind of color blind, blind human might see the world because instead of having three channels to compare and contrast, they only have two channels. And that makes it much more difficult to figure out exactly which wavelength you're, you're looking at,

0 (15m 40s):
Do a colorblind. People suffer much as a consequence of being colorblind.

1 (15m 44s):
Well, you know, it's like so many other disabilities. We are, you know, the, the, the world is built for people of the most common type. So in some cases, the expectation can be there that somebody can see something that they won't be able to, if they're missing one of their contacts, let's say so in those moments, that can be a real problem. You know, if there's a lack of contrast to their visual system, they will be blind to that in general, it's a fairly modest visual of limitation as things go, you know, for example, if not being able to see acutely, it can be much more damaging, not being able to read, you know, find printed,

0 (16m 26s):
For example. Yeah. I suppose if I had to give up the ability to see certain colors or give up the ability to see clearly I'd certainly trade out color for clarity.

1 (16m 37s):
Right? Of course, color is very meaningful to us as human beings, you know? So we would hate to give it up, but obviously dogs and cats and all kinds of other mammals do perfectly well in the world.

0 (16m 48s):
Yeah. Because we take care of them. I spend most of my time taking care of that dog. He took care of me too. Let's talk about the, that odd photo pigment photo, big men, of course, being the thing that absorbs light of a particular wavelength. And let's talk about these specialized ganglion cells that communicate certain types of information from eye to the brain that are so important for so many things. What I'm referring to here of course is your co-discovery of the so-called intrinsically photosensitive cells, the neurons in the eye that do so many of the things that don't actually have to do with perception, but have to do with important biological functions.

0 (17m 30s):
What I would love for you to do is explain to me why once I heard you say, we have a bit of fly eye, our eye, and you showed this slide of like a giant fly from a horror movie, trying to attack this woman. Yeah. And maybe it was an eye also. So what does it mean that we

1 (17m 50s):
Have a bit of a fly eye in our eye? Yeah. So this is, this last pigment is a really peculiar one. It, when you can think about it as really the initial sensitive element in a system that's designed to tell your brain about how bright things are in your world. And the thing that's really peculiar about this pigment is that it's in the wrong place. In a sense, when you think about the structure of the retina, you think about a layer of cake, essentially, you've got this thin membrane at the back of your eye, but it's actually a stack of thin layers. And the outer, most of those layers is where these photo receptors you were talking about earlier sitting, that's where the film of your camera is essentially that's where the photons do their magic with the photo pigments and turn it into a neural signal.

1 (18m 39s):
I like that. I've never really thought of the photo receptors as the film of the camera, but that makes sense. Or like at the sensitive chip on, you know, CCD chip in your, in your cellphone is the surface on which the light pattern is imaged by the optics of the eye. And now you've got an array of sensors. That's capturing that information and creating a bitmap essentially, but now it's in neural signals distributed across the surface of the retina. So all of that was known to be going on 150 years ago, a couple of types of photoreceptors cones and rods. If you look a little bit more closely, three types of cones, that's where the transformation from electromagnetic radiation to, to neural signals was thought to take place.

1 (19m 22s):
But it turns out that this last photo pigment is in the other end of the retina, the inner most part of the retina. And that's where the so-called ganglion cells are. Those are the cells that talk to the brain, the ones that actually can communicate directly what information comes to them from the photo receptors. And here you've got a case where actually some of the output neurons that we didn't think had any business being directly sensitive to light, or actually making this photo pigment, absorbing light, and converting that to neural signals and sending it to the brain. So that made it pretty surprising and unexpected, but there are many surprising things about these cells. So, and w what is the relationship to the fly eye?

1 (20m 5s):
The right? So the, the link there is that if you ask how the photo pigment now communicates downstream from the initial absorption event to get to the electrical signal, that's a complex cellular process, involves many chemical steps. And if you look at how photo receptors in our eyes work, you can see what that cascade is, how that chain works. If you look in the eyes of flies or other insects or other invertebrates, there's a very similar kind of chain that, but the specifics of how the signal is get from the absorption event, by the pigment to the electrical response that the nervous system can understand are characteristically different between fuzzy furry creatures like us and insects, for example, like the fly I see.

1 (20m 57s):
So these funny, extra photo receptors that are in the wrong layer, doing something completely different are actually using a chemical cascade. That looks much more like what you would see in a fly photoreceptor than what you would see in a human photo receptor, a rod or a colon, for example.

0 (21m 15s):
So it sounds like it's a very primitive part of a primitive aspect of biology that we maintain

1 (21m 20s):
Exactly. Right.

0 (21m 22s):
And despite the fact that dogs can't see as many colors as we can, and cats can see as many colors as we can. We have all this extravagant stuff we're seeing color. And then you've got this other pigment sitting in the wrong, not wrong, but in a different part of the eye, sending processing light very differently, right. And sending that information into the brain. So what do these cells do? I mean, presumably they're there for a reason.

1 (21m 49s):
And the, the interesting thing is that one cell type like this carrying one kind of signal, which I would call a brightness signal, essentially can do many things in the,

0 (22m 2s):
When you say brightness signal, you mean that it like right now, I have these, I have these cells. I'm joking. I hope I have these cells in my, and they're paying attention to how bright it is overall, but they're not paying attention for instance, to the edge of your ear or what else is going on in the room. Right.

1 (22m 17s):
So, so it's the difference between knowing what the objects are on the table and knowing whether it's bright enough to be daylight right now. So what, why does your nervous system to need, need to know whether it's daylight right now? Well, one thing that needs to know that is your circadian clock. You know, if you travel across time zones to Europe, now your internal clock thinks it's California time, but the rotation of the earth is, you know, for, you know, a different part of the planet. You're the rising and setting of the sun is not at all what your body is anticipating. So you've got an internal representation of the rotation of the earth in your own brain. That's your circadian system is keeping time, but now you've played a trick on your nervous system.

1 (23m 1s):
You put yourself into a different place where the sun is rising at the wrong time. Well, that's not good for you, right? So you've got to get back on track. One of the things this system does is sends a, oh, it's daylight now signal to the brain, which compares with its internal clock. And if that's not right, it tweaks the clock gradually until you get over your jet lag and you feel back on track again. So,

0 (23m 24s):
So the jetlag case makes a lot of sense to me, but presumably these elements didn't evolve for jet lag, right? So what, w w what are they doing on a day to day basis?

1 (23m 36s):
Right. Well, one way to think about this is that the clock that you have in not just your brain in all the cells would be more, almost all of the cells of your body. They're all oscillating. They're all, you know, they got little clocks and little clocks and of themselves. They're all, they're all clocks. You know, they need to be synchronized appropriately. And the whole thing has to be built in biological machinery. This is actually a beautiful story about how gene expression can control gene expression. And if you set it up, right, you can set up a little thing that just sort of hums along at a particular frequency.

1 (24m 17s):
In our case, it's homing along at 24 hours. Cause that's how our earth rotates and it's all built into our biology. So this is great, but the reality is that the clock can only be so good. I mean, we're talking about biology or it's not precision engineering. And so it can be a little bit off.

0 (24m 34s):
Well, also it doesn't, it's in our brain, so it doesn't have access to any regular unerring signal.

1 (24m 40s):
Well, if in the absence of the rising and setting of the sun, it doesn't have you put somebody in a cave. Their biological clock will keep time to, within a handful of minutes of 24 hours. That's no problem for one day, but if this went on without any correction, eventually you'd be out of phase. And this is actually one of the things that blind patients often complain about. If they've got retinal blindness is insomnia and or sleep

0 (25m 9s):
In the middle of the night.

1 (25m 10s):
Exactly. They're not synchronized. Our clock is there, but they're drifting out of phase because our clock's only good to, you know, 24.2 hours or 23.8 hours. That'll by literally they're drifting. So you need a synchronization signal. So even if you never across time zones, and of course we didn't back on the Savanna, we stayed within walking distance of where we were. You still need to synchronize her because otherwise you have nothing to actually confirm when the rising and the setting of the sun is, that's what you're trying to synchronize yourself to.

0 (25m 44s):
I'm fascinated by the circadian clock and the fact that all the cells of our body have essentially a 24 hour ish clock in them. Right? We hear a lot about these circadian rhythms and circadian clocks fact that we need light input from these special neurons in order to set the clock. But I've never really heard it described how the clock itself works and how the clock signals to all the rest of the body. When you know, the liver should be doing one thing and when the stomach should be doing another, I know you've done some work on the clock. So if you would just maybe briefly describe where the clock is, what it does, and some of the, you know, top contour of how it tells the cells of the body, what to do.

1 (26m 30s):
So the first thing to say is that he's, you said the clock is all over the place. Most of the tissues in your body have clocks.

0 (26m 38s):
We probably have what millions of

1 (26m 39s):
Clocks in our body. I would say, that's, that's probably fair. You haven't billions of cell types. You by may have millions of clocks that the role of the central pacemaker for the circadian system is to coordinate all of these. And this is, there's a little nucleus, a little collection of nerve cells in your brain. This called the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the Sen, and it is sitting in a funny place for the rest of the structures in the nervous system to get direct retinal input. It's sitting in the hypothalamus, which you can think about as sort of the great coordinator of drives and

0 (27m 18s):
The source of all our pleasures and all our problems or

1 (27m 21s):
Most our problems. Yes, it really is. But it's sort of, you know, deep in your brain, things that drive you to do things. If you're freezing cold, you put on a coat, you, you shivery, all these things are coordinated by the hypothalamus. So this pathway that we're talking about from the retina and from these peculiar cells that are encoding light intensity are sending signals directly into a center. That's surrounded by all of these centers that control autonomic nervous system and your hormonal systems. So this is a part of the, your, your visual system that doesn't really reach the level of consciousness. It's not something you, you think about it's happening under the radar, kind of all the time.

1 (28m 6s):
And the signal is working its way into the, this central clock coordinating center. Now what happens then is not that well understood, but it's clear that this is a neural center that has the same ability to communicate with other parts of your brain is any other neural center. And clearly there are circuits that involve connections between neurons that, you know, are conventional. But in addition is quite clear that there are also sort of humeral effects that things are being oozing out of the cells in the center and maybe into the circulation or, or just diffusing through the brain to some extent that can also affect neurons elsewhere, but the hypothalamus uses everything to control the rest of the bodies.

1 (28m 54s):
And that's true. The Supercars medic nucleus, this, this circadian center as well. It can get its fingers into the autonomic nervous system, the humeral system, and of course, up to the centers of the brain that organized, coordinated, rational behavior.

0 (29m 12s):
So if I understand correctly, we have this group of cells, the Supercars bank nucleus, it's got a 24 hour rhythm. That rhythm is more or less matched to what's going on in our external world, by the specialized set of neurons in our eye. But then the, the master clock itself, the SCN releases things in the blood humoral signals that go out various places in the body. And he said to the autonomic system, which is regulating more or less, how alert calm we are, as well as our thinking and our cognition. So the I'd love to talk to you about the autonomic part, presumably that's through melatonin, it's through adrenaline.

0 (29m 56s):
How is it that, that this clock is impacting how the autonomic system, how alert or calm we feel,

1 (30m 2s):
Right? So there, there are pathways by which the supervise manic nucleus can access what the parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous system.

0 (30m 12s):
So people know the sympathetic nervous system is the one that tends to make us more alert. And the parasympathetic nervous system is the portion of the autonomic nervous system makes us feel more calm right? In, in Broadcom

1 (30m 24s):
To first approximation, right? So this is both of these systems are within the grasp of the circadian system, through hypothalamic circuits. One of the circuits that will be, I think, of particular interest to some of your listeners is a pathway that involves this sympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system, the fight or flight system that is actually through a very circuitous route. Innervating the pineal gland, which is sitting in the middle of your brain, the

0 (30m 55s):
So-called third

1 (30m 56s):
Eye, right?

0 (30m 58s):
So this is a lot to get back to why it's called the third eye, because yeah, that's an interesting thing, the third eye and not, and just, you know, just leave it there

1 (31m 6s):
Right there. Right, right. Anyway, this is the major source of melatonin near.

0 (31m 11s):
So light comes into my eye. Yes. Passed off to the super guys, medic nucleus, essentially not the light itself, but the, the signal representing the light. Sure. Then the SCN, the Supercars mag nucleus can impact the melatonin system, right. Via the pineal.

1 (31m 29s):
The way this has seen is that if you were to measure your melatonin level over the course of the day, if you could do this, you know, hour by hour, you'd see that it's really low during the day, very high at night. But if you get up in the middle of the night and go to the bathroom and turn on the brightful fluorescent light, your melatonin level is slammed to the floor. Light is directly impacting your hormonal levels through this mechanism that we just described. So this is one of the routes by which light can act on your hormonal status to pathways that are completely beyond what you normally would think about. Right. You're thinking about the things in the bathroom.

1 (32m 11s):
Oh, there's the toothbrush, or there's the tube of toothpaste. But meanwhile, this other system is just counting photons and saying, oh, well, there's a lot of photons right now. Let's shut down the melatonin release.

0 (32m 23s):
This is one of the main reasons why I've encouraged people to avoid bright light exposure in the middle of the night, not just blue light, but bright light of any wavelength, because there's this myth out there that blue light, because it's the optimal signal for activating this pathway and shutting down melatonin is the only wavelength of light that can shut it down. But am I correct in thinking that if a light is bright enough, right. It doesn't matter if it's blue light, green light purple, light, even red light, right. You're going to slam melatonin down to the ground, which is not a good thing to happen in the middle of the night. Right. Right,

1 (32m 58s):
Right. Yeah. I mean, any, any light will affect this system to some extent the blue light is somewhat more effective, but don't fool yourself into thinking that if you use red light, that means you're, you know, you're avoiding the effect you see, it's certainly still there. And certainly if it's very bright, it'll be more effective in driving the system than dim blue light would be

0 (33m 20s):
Interesting. A lot of people wear blue blockers and in a kind of odd twist of misinformation out there, a lot of people wear blue blockers during the middle of the day, which basically makes no sense because during the middle of the day is when you want to get a lot of bright light and including blue light into your eyes. Correct.

1 (33m 39s):
Absolutely. And not just for the reasons we've been talking about in terms of circadian effects, there are major effects of light on mood and seasonal effective disorder. Apparently is essentially a reflection of this same system in reverse. If you're living in the Northern climbs and you know, you're not getting that much light during the middle of the winter in Stockholm, you might be prone to depression and phototherapy might be just the ticket for you. And that's because there's a direct effect of light on mood as there's an example where if you don't have enough light, it's a problem. So I think you're exactly right. It's not about is light good or bad for you.

1 (34m 20s):
It's about w what kind of light. And when that, that makes the difference.

0 (34m 25s):
Yeah. The general rule of thumb that I've been living by is to get as much bright light in my eyes, ideally from sunlight. Anytime I want to be alert and doing exactly the opposite when I want to be asleep or getting dressed.

1 (34m 37s):
And there, there are aspects of this that, that spin out way beyond the conversation we're having now to things like this. It turns out that the incidence of myopia

0 (34m 48s):
Near-sightedness

1 (34m 49s):
Near-sightedness right, is strongly related to the amount of time that kids spend outdoors

0 (34m 56s):
In what direction of effect, the

1 (34m 58s):
More they spend time outdoors, the less near-sightedness they have. So this is all,

0 (35m 3s):
Yeah, because they're viewing things at a distance, or because they're getting a lot of blue light, this,

1 (35m 7s):
The sunlight, it's a great question. It is not fully resolved. What the epidemiological, what the basis of that epidemiological finding is one possibility is that the amount of light, which would make me think about this melanopsin system again, but it might very well be a question of accommodation. That is the process by which you focus on near or far things. If you're never outdoors, everything is nearby. If you're outdoors, you're focusing far. So this is you're on your phone,

0 (35m 32s):
Right? Exactly. Which there's a tremendous amount of interest these days in watches and things that count steps. I'm beginning to realize that we should probably have a device that can count photons during the day. Right. And can also count photons at night and tell us, Hey, you're getting too many photons. You're going to shut down your melatonin at night, or you're not getting enough photons today. You didn't get enough bright light, whether or not it's from artificial light or from sunlight that I guess that, where would you put it because you boil on top of your head, or you'd probably want it someplace outward facing,

1 (36m 3s):
Right. It probably what you need is as many photons over as much of the retina as possible to recruit as much of the system, you know, as possible

0 (36m 11s):
In thinking about other effects of this non image, forming pathway that involves these special cells in the eye and the SCN. You had a paper a few years ago, looking at retinal input to an area of the brain, which has a fancy name, the peri Haband ULA, but names don't necessarily matter that had some important effects on mood and other aspects of light. What maybe you could tell us a little bit about what is the ?

1 (36m 43s):
So that's a fancy term, but I think the way to think about this is as a chunk of the brain that is sitting as part of a bigger chunk, that's really the linker between peripheral sensory input of all kinds, virtually all kinds, whether it's auditory input or tactile input or visual input to the region of your brain, the cortex that allows you to think about these things and make plans around them and integrate them and that kind of thing. So, you know, we've known about a pathway that gets from the retina through this sort of linker center, it's called the thalamus and then on us, like a train station.

1 (37m 31s):
Exactly. But you want to arrive at the destination right now, you're at grand central, and now you can do your thing cause you're up at the cortex. So this is the standard pattern. You have the sensory input coming from the periphery. You've got these peripheral elements that are doing the initial stages of the eye, the skin of your fingertips, right. You know that the taste buds on your tongue, they're taking this raw information in and they're doing some pre-processing maybe, or, you know, the early circuits are, but eventually most of these signals have to pass through the gateway to the cortex, which is the thalamus. And we've known for years, for decades, many decades, what the major throughput pathway from the retina to the cortex is and where it ends up.

1 (38m 14s):
It ends up in the visual cortex. You know, you pat the back of your head, that's where the, where the receiving center is for the main pathway from retina to cortex. But wait a minute, there's more, there's this little side pathway that goes through a different part of that linking thalamus center, the gateway to the

0 (38m 33s):
It's like a local train from grand central to it's in a

1 (38m 36s):
Weird part of the neighborhood, right? It's a completely different it's, it's like a little trunk line that branches off and goes out into the hinterlands. And it's going to the part of this linker center. That's talking to a completely different part of Gore-Tex way upfront frontal lobe, which is much more involved in things like planning or a self image or self

0 (38m 58s):
Potential, literally, how one has

1 (38m 60s):
The oneself into, do you feel good about yourself or, you know, what's your plan for next Thursday? You know, it's, it's a, it's a very high level center in the highest level of your nervous system. And this is the region that is getting input from this pathway, which is mostly worked out in his function by samurai Tara's lab. I know you had him on the podcast. We didn't talk

0 (39m 24s):
About this path, this pathway

1 (39m 25s):
At all right. So Diego Fernandez and Samara, and the folks that work with them, we're able to show that this pathway doesn't just exist and get you to a weird place. But if you activate it at kind of the wrong time of day, animals can become depressed. And if you silence it under the right circumstances, then weird lighting cycles that would normally make them act sort of depressed no longer have that effect.

0 (39m 57s):
So it sounds to me like there's this pathway from I to this unusual train route through the structure, we call the thalamus, then up to the front of the brain that relates to things of self perception, kind of higher level functions. I find that really interesting because most of what I think about when I think about these fancy well, or these primitive rather neurons, that don't pay attention to the shapes of things, but instead to brightness, I think of, well, it regulates melatonin, circadian clock, mood, hunger, the really kind of vegetative stuff, if you will. And this is interesting because I think a lot of people experienced depression, not just people that live at the, you know, in Scandinavia, in the middle of winter.

0 (40m 42s):
And we are very much divorced from our normal interactions with light. It also makes me realize that these intrinsically photosensitive cells that set the clock, et cetera, are involved in a lot of things. I mean, they seem to regulate a dozen or more different basic functions. I want to ask you about a different aspect of the visual system now, which is the one that relates to our sense of balance. So I, I love boats, but I hate being on them. Love the ocean from shore because I get incredibly seasick just it's awful. I think I'm gonna get seasick if I think about it too much.

0 (41m 22s):
And once I went on a boat trip, I came back and I actually got, I got motion Sager wasn't seasick cause went rafting. So there's a system that somehow gets messed up. They always tell us if you're feeling sick, to look at the horizon, et cetera, et cetera. Right. So what is the link between our visual system and our balance system? And why does it make us nauseous? Sometimes when the world is moving in a way that we're not accustomed to, right. I realize this is a big question because it involves eye movement, et cetera, but let's maybe just walk in at the simplest layers of vision, vestibular so-called balanced system. And then maybe we can piece the system together for people so that they can understand it.

0 (42m 5s):
And then also we should give them some tools for adjusting their nausea when they're, when their vestibular system is out of whack.

1 (42m 12s):
So, I mean, the first thing to think about is that the vestibular system is designed to allow you to see how your or detect sense how you're moving in the world through the world. It's a funny one, because it's about your mood in relationship to the world in a sense. And yet it's sort of interoceptive in the sense that it is really in the sensing the movement of your own body.

0 (42m 46s):
Okay. So interoception, we should probably delineate for people is when you're focusing on your internal state as opposed to something outside you, but is it a, it's a gravity sensing system?

1 (42m 55s):
Well, it's partly a gravity sensing system in the, in the sense that gravity is a force. That's acting on you as if you were moving through the world in the opposite direction.

0 (43m 7s):
All right. Now you got to explain that. Explain that to

1 (43m 9s):
Me. Okay. So basically the idea is that if we leave gravity aside, we're just sitting in, in a, in a car in the passenger seat and the driver hits the accelerator and you start moving forward. You sense that if your eyes were closed, you'd sense that if your ears were plugged in, your eyes were closed, you'd still know it.

0 (43m 32s):
Yeah. Many people take off on the plane like this, they're dreading the flight and they know when the plane is taking off. Sure.

1 (43m 37s):
That's your vestibular system talking because anything that Jostle's you out of the current position you're in right now will be detected by the distributor system pretty much. So this is a complicated system, but it's basically in your inner ear, very close to where you're hearing it, put it there,

0 (43m 57s):
Dennis, and I don't know who they is. I'm just getting them to steal our friend Ross van Gelder's explanation. We weren't consulted the design phase and no one has, that's a great guy. That's, that's a great line, but it's interesting. It's in the ear.

1 (44m 12s):
Yeah. Right. It's yeah. It's deep in there. And it's served by the same nerve actually that serves the hearing system. One way to think about it is both the hearing system and this vestibular self motion sensing system are really detecting the signal in the same way, their hairy cells. And they're excited, sort of, they got little silliest sticking up off the surfaces. And depending on which way you bend those, the cells will either be inhibited or excited. They're not even neurons, but then they talk to neurons with a neuron life process. And off you go. Now you've got an auditory signal. If you're sensing things bouncing around in your cochlea, which is always sympathetically the bouncing of your eardrum, which is in sympathetically, the sound waves in the world.

1 (44m 59s):
But in the case of the vestibular apparatus, evolution has built a system that detects the motion of say fluid going by those hairs. And if you put a sensor like that in a two that's fluid-filled, now you've got a sensor that will be activated when you rotate that tube around the axis that passes through the middle of it. Those, you know, we're just listening. Well, when people that

0 (45m 23s):
He says, I was thinking of it as three hula hoops on standing up one, lying down on the ground.

1 (45m 29s):
And one of the other three directions, you know, the people who fly, we'll talk about roll pitch and y'all that kind of thing. So three axes of encoding, just like in the course of the,

0 (45m 41s):
The no. And then I always say it's and then the puppy had told

1 (45m 46s):
That's the other one. So the point is that your, your brain is eventually going to be able to unpack what these sensors are telling you about, how you just rotated your head in very much, the way that the three types of cones we were talking about before are reading the incoming photons in the wavelength domain differently. And if you could agree here, you think Marion trusts, you get red, green, blue, so same basic idea. If you have three sensors and you array them properly, now you can tell if you're rotating your head left or right up or down, that's the sensory signal coming back into your brain, confirming that you've just made a movement that you will

0 (46m 27s):
About on the plane, because when I'm on the plane, I'm completely stationary. The plane's moving, but my head hasn't moved. Right? So I'm just moving forward. Gravity is constant. Exactly. How, how do I know I'm?

1 (46m 38s):
So what's happening now is your brain is sensing the motion and the, the brain is smart enough also to, to ask itself, did I will that movement or did that come from the outside? So now in terms of sort of understanding what the vestibular signal means, it's gotta be embedded in the context of what you tried to do, or what are your other sensories systems are telling you about what's happening right now? So,

0 (47m 4s):
Oh, that's very interesting, but it's not conscious or at least if it's conscious, it's very not conscious. It's definitely very fast, right? The moment that plane starts moving, I know that I didn't get up out of my chair and run forward. Right. But I'm not really thinking about getting up out of my chair.

1 (47m 19s):
No, I guess the way I think about it is that the nervous system is quite aware at many levels when it gets all the way up to the cortex, we're thinking about it, you're talking about it, you know, that's critical, but the lower levels of the brain that don't require you to actually actively think about it, they're just doing their thing are also made aware, right? A lot of this is happening under the surface of what you're thinking. These are reflexes. Okay.

0 (47m 50s):
So we've got this gravity sensing system, right. For why I'm nodding for those that are listening for a yes. Moving to the head, a no movement of the head or the tilting of the head from side to side. Right. And then you said that knowledge about whether or not activation of that system comes from my own movements or something acting upon me like the plane moving. Right. It has to be combined with other signals. And so how is the visual information or information about the visual world combined with balance information? Right?

1 (48m 24s):
So yeah. I mean, I guess maybe the best way to think about how these two systems work together is to think about what happens when you suddenly rotate your head to the left. When you suddenly rotate your head to the left, your eyes are actually rotating to the right automatically. You do this in complete darkness. If you had an infrared camera and watch yourself in complete darkness, you can't see anything, you rotating your head to the left, your eyes would rotate to the right. That's your vestibular system saying, I'm going to try to compensate for the head rotation. So my eyes are still looking in the same place.

1 (49m 4s):
Why is that useful? Well, if it's always doing that, then the image of the world on your retina will be pretty stable most of the time. And that actually helps vision.

0 (49m 15s):
They built this into cameras for image stabilization. Cause when I move, when I take a picture with my phone, it's blurry. It's not, it's not clear. Well,

1 (49m 23s):
Well actually, you know, you might want to get a better phone because now what they have is software in the better apps that will do a kind of image stabilization, post hoc, by doing a registration of the images that are bouncing around, they say this, the edge of the house was here. So let's get that aligned at each of your images. So you may not be aware if you're using a good new phone, that if you walk around a landscape and hold your phone, that, you know, there's all this image stabilization going on, but it's built into standard cinematic, you know, technology now because we tried to do a handheld camera. Things would, we'd be bouncing around and things would be unwatchable.

1 (50m 3s):
You wouldn't be able to really understand what's going on in the scene. So the brain works really hard to mostly stabilize the image of the world on your retina. Now, of course, you're moving through the world, so you can't stabilize everything, but the more you can stabilize most of the time, the better you can see. And that's why when we're scanning a scene, looking around at things, we're making very rapid eye movements, very short periods of time. And then we just rest. But we're not the only ones that do that. If you ever watch a hummingbird, it does exactly the same thing at a feeder, right? But as if it's body jolt, it's going to make a quick movement and then it's going to be stable. And when you watch a pigeon walking on the sidewalk, it does this funny head bobbing thing.

1 (50m 46s):
But what is really doing is racking his head back on its neck while his body goes forward. So that the image of the visual world stays static. Is that

0 (50m 55s):
Why they're doing

1 (50m 56s):
This? And you've seen the funny chicken videos on YouTube, right? You take your chicken, move it up and down the Headspace in one place, it's all the same thing. All of these animals are trying hard to keep the image of the world, stable on their retina as much of the time as they possibly can. And then when they've got a move, make it fast, make it quick and then stabilize again, sort of the budgets of their headband. It is. Yeah. Wow. Yeah.

0 (51m 20s):
I mean, if you can just pause there for a second and digest that amazing in case people aren't, well, there's no reason why people would know what we're doing here, but essentially what we're doing is we're building up from sensory, you know, light onto the eye, make color to what the brain does with that. The, the integration of that, you know, circadian clock, melatonin, et cetera. And now what we're doing is we're talking about multi-sensory or multimodal, combining one sense vision with another sense balance, right? And it turns out that pigeons know more about this than I do because pigeons no to keep their head back as they walk forward. Right. All right. So that gets us to this issue of motion sickness, right?

0 (52m 3s):
And if you don't have to go out on a boat, anytime I go to New York, I sit in an Uber or an, a cab in the back. And if I'm looking at my phone while the car's driving, I feel nauseous. By the time I arrive at my destination, right. I always try and look out the front of the windshield because I'm told that helps, but it's a little tiny window. Right? And I ended up feeling slightly less sick if I do that. So what's going on with the vision and the balanced system that causes a kind of a nausea. And actually, if I keep talking about the city, I don't throw up easily. But, but for some reason, motion sickness is a, is a real,

1 (52m 43s):
It's a problem for a lot of people. I mean, I think the fundamental problem, typically when you get motion, sick is what they call visual vestibular conflict. That is you have two sensory systems that are talking to your brain about how you're moving through the world. And as long as they agree, you're fine. So if you're driving, you know, your body senses that you're moving forward, your vestibular systems, you know, is, is picking up this acceleration of the car and your visual system is seeing the consequences of forward motion in the sweeping of the scene, past you. Everything is hunky Dory, right? No problem. But when you are headed forward, but you're looking at your cell phone, what is your retina?

1 (53m 28s):
Seeing your retina is seeing the stable image of the screen. There's absolutely no motion in that. Or the motion

0 (53m 34s):
Is, or some other emotion that's,

1 (53m 36s):
You're watching. If you're playing a game or you're watching a video, a football game, you know, the motion is uncoupled with what's actually happening to your body, your brain doesn't like that. Your brain likes everything to be aligned. And if it's not, it's going to complain to you by making me feel, not make us feel nauseous and maybe you'll change your behavior. So you're getting, I'm getting

0 (53m 55s):
Punished yeah.

1 (53m 56s):
For, for, for, for setting it up. So you're a single thing

0 (53m 59s):
Right by the vestibular you'll learn in time. I love it. I love the idea of, of reward signals. And we've done a lot of discussion about this on this podcast of things like dopamine reward and things, but also punishment signals. And I love this example. Well, maybe marching a little bit further along this pathway, visual input is combined with balanced input. Where does that occur? And maybe cause I have some hint of where it occurs. You could tell us a little bit about this kind of mysterious little mini brain that they call the brown.

1 (54m 39s):
Yeah. So, you know, the way I tried to describe the cerebellum to my students is that it serves sort of like the air traffic control system functions in air travel. So that it's a system it's very complicated and it's really dependent on great information. So it's taking in information about everything that's happening everywhere, not only through your sensory systems, what is listening in to all the little centers elsewhere in your brain that are computing, what you're going to be doing next and so forth. So it's just ravenous for that kind of information. So

0 (55m 16s):
It really is like a little mini brain. It

1 (55m 18s):
Is it's, it's, it's got access to all of the signals and it really has an important role in, in, in coordinating and shaping movements. But you know, if you suddenly eliminated the aircraft control system, planes could still take off and land, but you might have some unhappy accidents in the, in the process. So the cerebellum is kind of like that. It's not that you would be paralyzed if your Sarah cerebellum was gone because you still have motor morons, you still have ways to talk to your muscles. You still have reflex centers, and it's not like you would have any sensory loss because you still have your cortex getting all of those beautiful signals that you can think about, but you wouldn't be coordinating things so well anymore.

1 (56m 9s):
The timing between input and output might be off, or if you were trying to practice a new athletic move, like an overhead serve in tennis, you'd be terrible at learning, but all the sequences of muscle movements and the feedback from your sensory apparatus, that would let you really get that ball exactly where you wanted to after the nth rep right now, the thousandth rep or something, you get much better at it. So the cerebellum is all involved in things like motor learning and refining the precisions of, of movements so that they get you where you want to go. If you reach for a glass of champagne that you don't knock it over or stop short.

0 (56m 54s):
Yeah. People who have selective damage to the cerebellum. Absolutely. And, and what I come familiar with, of course, the coughs is, is different, right? Isn't that a B vitamin deficiency from in chronic alcoholics. And they have a, they tend to walk kind of bow legged and they can't coordinate their movements is that, that has some memory bodies, but also cerebellum.

1 (57m 16s):
I'm not sure about the cerebellar involvement there, but you know, the, the typical thing would be a patient who has a cerebellar stroke or a tumor, for example, might be not that steady on their feet. You know, if, if the, you know, dynamics of the situation you're standing on, on a street car with your, with no handle pull the whole onto, they might not be as good at adjusting all of the little movements of the car. You know, there's a kind of tremor that can occur as they're reaching for things because the reach a little too far, and then they over-correct and come back, things like that.

1 (57m 57s):
So it's, it's very common neurological phenomenon actually, cerebellar ataxia is what the neurologist call it. And it can have not just with cerebellar damage, but damage to the tracks that feed the information into the cerebellum or Broadway structures actually, or output from this.

0 (58m 15s):
And so the cerebellum is where a lot of visual and balance information is combined

1 (58m 20s):
In a very key place in the cerebellum, which is it's really one of the oldest parts in terms of the flock, right? This is a, it's a critical place in the cerebellum where visual and vestibular information comes together for recording. Just the kinds of movements we were talking about this image, stabilizing network, it's all happening there, and there's learning happening there as well. So that if your vestibular apparatus is a little bit damaged, somehow your visual system is actually talking to your cerebellum saying, there's a problem here. There's an error. And your cerebellum is learning to do better by increasing the output of the vestibular system to compensate for whatever that loss was.

1 (59m 4s):
So it's a little error correction system. That's sort of typical of a cerebellar function, and it can happen in many, many different domains. This is just one of the domains of sensory motor integration that it explains that her,

0 (59m 16s):
So I should stay off my phone in the Uber's. If I'm on a boat, I should essentially look and as much as possible act as if I'm driving the, the machine, right. That'd be weird if I was in the passenger seat, pretending I was driving the machine, but I do always feel better if I'm sitting in the front seat, passenger, right.

1 (59m 33s):
More of the, of the visual world that you can see as if you were actually the one doing the motion, I would think

0 (59m 39s):
Let's stay in the inner ear for a minute. As we continue to March around the nervous system, when you take off in the plane or when you land, or sometimes in the middle of there, your ears get clogged, or at least my ears get clogged. That's because of pressure buildup in the various tubes of the inner ear, et cetera, we'll get into this. But years ago, our good, our good friend, Harvey carton is another world-class. Neuroanatomist gave a lecture and it talked about how plugging your nose and blowing out versus plugging your nose and sucking in can, should be done at different times, depending on whether or not you're taking off or landing.

0 (1h 0m 24s):
And I always see people try to unpack their ears, right? And when you do scuba diving, you learn how to do this without necessarily I can do it by just kind of moving my jaw now, cause I've done a little bit of diving, but what's the story there. We don't have to get into all the differences and atmospheric pressure, et cetera. But if I'm taking off and my ears are plugged or I've recently ascended plane took off, my ears are plugged. Do I plug my nose and blow out? Or do I plug my nose and suck in?

1 (1h 0m 50s):
Okay. So the basic idea is that if your ears feel bad, because you're going into an area of higher pressure. So if they pressurize the cabin more than the pressure that you have on the surface of the planet, your eardrums will be bending in. And they don't like that. If you push them more, they'll hurt.

0 (1h 1m 9s):
That's a good description that, that you know, that the pressure goes up. Then they're going to bend in

1 (1h 1m 13s):
And then the reverse would be true if you go into an area of low pressure. So if you know, you, you started to drive up the mountain side, you know, the pressure is getting lower and lower outside. Now the insight, the air behind you, your drum is ballooning out, right? So it's just a question of why are you trying to get more pressure or less pressure behind the eardrum and this little tube that does that and comes down into your, you know, back of your throat there. And if you've forced pressure up that tube, you're going to be putting more air pressure into the compartment to counter it. If it's, if it's not enough and if you're sucking, you're going the other way. In reality, I think as long as you open the passageway, I think the diff pressure differential is going to solve your problems. So I think you could actually blow in when you're not supposed to.

1 (1h 1m 56s):
Okay.

0 (1h 1m 56s):
So you could just hold your nose and blow air out or hold your nose and suck in the right effect. Either way is fine. I think so. I think excellent. You just, I just want a hundred dollars from my Ricardo. Thank you very much. There's a lot. We Harvey and I used to teach in her anatomy together and I was like, I don't think it matters. What thank you verse I'll, I'll split, split that with you. This is, this is important stuff, but, but it's true. You hear this, you know, so, so it doesn't matter either way. I

1 (1h 2m 25s):
I'm no expert in this area. Don't worry.

0 (1h 2m 28s):
He's not going to go. I'm going to quote you, but, okay. So w we've talked about the inner ear and we've talked about the cerebellum. I want to talk about an area of the brain that is rarely discussed, which is the midbrain. Yeah. And for those that don't know, the midbrain is an area beneath the cortex. I guess we never really defined cortex. It was kind of the outer layers or are the outer layers of the least mammalian brain or human brain. But the midbrain is super interesting because it controls a lot of unconscious stuff, reflexes, et cetera. And then there's this phenomenon even called blind sight.

0 (1h 3m 8s):
So could you please tell us about the midbrain about what it does and what in the world is blindsided?

1 (1h 3m 16s):
Yeah. So this is, there's a lot of pieces there. I think the first thing to say is, if you imagine the nervous system in your mind's eye, you see this big honking brain, and then there's this little thin little wand that dangles down into your vertebral column, the spinal cord. And that's kind of your visual impression. What you have to imagine is starting in the spinal cord and working your way up into this big magnificent brain and what you would do as you enter the skull is get into a little place where the spinal cord kind of thickens out. It still has that sort of long skinny trunk like feelings,

0 (1h 3m 55s):
Or like a paddle or a spoon shape,

1 (1h 3m 57s):
Right. It starts to spread out a little bit and that's cause you're, you know, evolution is packed more interesting goodies in there for processing information and generating movement. So beyond that is this tween brain. We were talking about this link, this link or brain with Diane, Stefan really means that the, between brands,

0 (1h 4m 15s):
Oh, I thought you said tween. Well, it is yes, no, no. Between between said tween

1 (1h 4m 21s):
It's the, between rain is what the name means. It's the linker from the spinal cord in the periphery up to these grand centers of the cortex. But this midbrain you're talking about is the last bit of this enlarge sort of spinal cord thing in your skull, which is really the brain stem is what we call it. The last bit of that before you get to this relay up to the cortex is the midbrain. And there's a really important visual center there. It's called the superior. Colliculus, there's a similar center in the brains of other vertebrate animals. A frog for example, or a lizard would have this, it's called the optic tectum there, but it's a center then in these non mammalian, vertebrates is really the main visual center.

1 (1h 5m 11s):
They don't really have what we would call a visual cortex, although there is something sort of like that, but this is where most of the action is in terms of interpreting visual input and organizing behavior around that, you can sort of think about the, this region of the brainstem is a reflex center that can reorient the animals gaze or body, or maybe even attention to particular regions of space out there around the animal. And that could be all for all kinds of reasons. I mean, it might be a predator just showed up in one corner of the forest and you pick that up and you're trying to avoid it, or just any movement may need movement, right?

1 (1h 5m 52s):
It might be, you know, that suddenly, you know, some things splats on the page when you're reading a novel and, and your eye reflexly looks at it, you don't have to think about that. That's a reflex. What have you

0 (1h 6m 5s):
Throw me a ball, but I'm not expecting it. Right. And I just reach up and try and grab it ratchet or not. Is that handled by the midbrain?

1 (1h 6m 12s):
Well, that's probably not the midbrain, although, I mean by itself, because it's going to involve all these limb movements, this movement of your arm and body and ducking, if

0 (1h 6m 24s):
Something suddenly

1 (1h 6m 25s):
Thrown him in the head. Sure. Right. Things like that. We'll certainly have a brainstem component, a midbrain component, you know, something loons and you dock, it may not be the superior colliculus we're talking about. Now. It might be another part of the visual midbrain, but these are centers that are emerged early in the evolution of brains, like ours to handle complicated visual events that have significance for the animal in terms of space, where is it in space? And in fact, this same center actually gets input from all kinds of other sensory systems that take information from the external world, from particular locations and where you might want to either avoid or approach things according to their significance to you.

1 (1h 7m 6s):
So you get input from the touch system, you get input from the auditory system. I worked for a while in rattlesnakes, they get input from a part of their warm sensors on their face. They're in these little pits on the, on the face, work on baby rattlesnakes, right? Well, they were, they were,

0 (1h 7m 24s):
Oh, I wasn't trying to diminish the danger. I thought for some reason they were little ones. Why in the world would you work with

1 (1h 7m 29s):
Rattlesnakes? Well, because they have a version of an extra sensitive sensory system that is, they're looking out into the world using a completely different set of sensors. They're using the same sensors. That would feel the warmth on your face. If you stood in front of a bonfire, except evolution has given them this very nice specialized system that lets them image where the heat's coming from. You can sort of do that anyway. Right? If you walk around the fire, you can feel which where the fire is from the, the, you know, the heat hitting your face is that they've

0 (1h 8m 1s):
Done a Merry way in which they detect

1 (1h 8m 4s):
Prey is one of, one of the major ways. And in fact, they use vision as well, and they bring these two systems together in the same place in this tectum regions, brainstem

0 (1h 8m 16s):
Tongue jutting about when the snakes

1 (1h 8m 18s):
That I don't know, that may be olfactory, they're

0 (1h 8m 21s):
Made, they're sniffing the air with their tongue. There may be earlier in our drive. You told me that flies actually tasting with their feet.

1 (1h 8m 28s):
Yeah. And so weird. They have, they have taste receptors. And in lots of funny places,

0 (1h 8m 33s):
I, I want to pause here just for one second, before we get back into the midbrain. I think what's so interesting in all seriousness about taste receptors on feet, heat sensors, tongue jutting, out of snakes and vision. And all this integration is that it really speaks to the fact that all these sensory neurons are trying to gather information and stuff it into a system that can make meaningful decisions and actions. And that it really doesn't matter whether or not it's coming from eyes or ears or nose or bottoms of feet, because in the end, it's just electricity flowing in. And so it's, it sounds like it's placed on each animal.

0 (1h 9m 15s):
It's always feels weird to call fly in animal, but they are amateurs. They are animals it's placed in different locations, on different animals, depending on the particular needs of that animal. Right.

1 (1h 9m 27s):
But how much more powerful if the nervous systems can also cross-correlate across sensory systems. So if you've got a weak signal from one sensory system, you're not quite sure there's something there and a weak signal from an another sensory system, that's telling you the same locations is a little bit interesting. There might be something there. If you've got those two together, you've got corroboration. Your brain now says it's much more likely that that's going to be something worth paying attention,

0 (1h 9m 57s):
Right? So maybe I'm feeling some heat on one side of my face. And I also smell something baking in the oven, right? So now there's, it's neither is particularly strong, but as you said, there's some corroboration, right? And that corroboration is occurring in the midbrain, right?

1 (1h 10m 13s):
And then if you throw things into conflict, now the brain is confused and that may be where your, your motion sickness comes from. So it's great to have, you know, as a, as a brain, it's great to have as many sources of information as you can have. Just like, if you're a, you know, you're, you're a spy or a journalist, you want as much information as you can get as about what's out there. But if things, conflict that's problematic, right? Your sources are giving you different information about what's, what's going on now. You've got a problem on your hands. What do you publish?

0 (1h 10m 42s):
The midbrain is so fascinating. I don't want to eject us from the midbrain and go back to the vestibular system. But I do have a question that I forgot to ask about the vestibular system, which is why is it that for many people, including me, there's despite my motion sickness in calves, that there's a sense of pleasure in moving through space and getting tilted relative to the gravitational pull of the earth. For me growing up, it was skateboarding, but people like to corner in cars, corner on bikes. It may be for some people it's done running or dance, but you know, what is it about moving through space and getting tilted a lot of surfers around here getting tilted that can tap into some of the pleasure center.

0 (1h 11m 25s):
So is it, do we have any idea why that would feel I have no clue? Is there dopaminergic input to this Simpson?

1 (1h 11m 31s):
Well, you know, the dopaminergic system gets a lot of places, you know, it's pretty much to some extent everywhere in the cortex, a lot more than the frontal lobe, of course, but, you know, that's just for starters, I mean, there's basically dopaminergic, innervation, most places in the central nervous system. So there's the potential for dopaminergic involvement, but I really have no clue about the tilting phenomenon. I mean, if you

0 (1h 11m 56s):
Don't pay money to go on roller coasters,

1 (1h 11m 58s):
Right. Well, I think that may be as much about the thrill of

0 (1h 12m 1s):
Sure. And falling as the falling reflex is very robust in all of us when the visual world is going up very fast. It usually means that we're falling right by in some people like that. Some people don't right.

1 (1h 12m 11s):
And kids, kids tolerate a lot more, you know, sort of Vista bitter craziness spinning around until they drop

0 (1h 12m 18s):
Well, I've friends. It always, you know, worries me a little bit that will, they throw their kids. I'm not recommending it. I wouldn't do this when they're little kids, you know, like throwing the kids really far back and forth kids, some kids seem to love it. Yeah.

1 (1h 12m 31s):
Yeah. Our son loved being shaken up and down. Very, very vigorously. He, as the only thing that would calm him down sometimes.

0 (1h 12m 39s):
Interesting. Yeah. So I'm guessing we can, we can not guess that maybe there's some activation of the reward systems from being moved, moving through.

1 (1h 12m 50s):
Well, I mean, if you think about it, you know how rewarding it is to be able to move through a space and how unhappy people are, who are used to that, who suddenly aren't able to do that. There is a sense of agency, right? If you, you can choose to move through the world and to tilt, that's not only you're moving through the world, but you're doing it with a certain amount of finesse. Maybe that's what it is. You can feel like you're the master of your own movement in a way that you wouldn't, if you were going straight I'm I'm just blowing smoke.

0 (1h 13m 17s):
Yeah. Well, we can speculate. That's fine. I, I couldn't help but ask the question. Okay. So if we move ourselves pun intended back into the midbrain, the midbrain is combining all these different signals for reflexive action. At what point does this become deliberate action? Because if I look at something I want and I want to pursue it, I'm going to go toward it. And many times that's a deliberate decision, right?

1 (1h 13m 43s):
So this gets very slippery, I think because what you have to try to imagine is all these different parts of the brain working on the problem of staying alive, you know, and surviving in, in the world, they're working on the problem simultaneously. And there's not one right. Answer to how to do that. But the one way to think about it is that you have high levels of your nervous system that are very well-designed to override an otherwise automatic movement, if it's inappropriate. So if you imagined you've been invited to tea with the queen and she hands you a, you know, very fancy Wedgewood, you know, tea cup, very thin Wedgewood tea.

1 (1h 14m 31s):
Yes. With very hot tea in it. And you're burning your hand. You probably will try to find a way to put that back down on the sauce, or rather than just dropping it on the floor, because you're with the queen. You, you know, you're trying to be appropriate to that. So you have ways of reigning in automatic behaviors if they're going to be maladaptive, but you also want the reflex to work quickly. If it's the only thing that's going to save you, the looming object coming at your head, you're gonna have time to think about that. So this is the interplay in these hierarchically organized centers of the nervous system at the lowest level, you've got the automatic sensors and centers and reflux, you know, arcs that will keep you safe.

1 (1h 15m 14s):
Even if you don't have time to think about it. And then you've got the higher center saying, well, maybe we could do this as well. Or maybe we shouldn't do that at all. Right? So you have all of these different levels operating simultaneously, and you need bi-directional communication between high level cognitive centers. Decision-making on the one hand. And these low-level very helpful reflex of centers, but they're a little bit rigid, little hard wired. So they need some nuance. So it is that they're both of these things are operating in tandem in real time, all the time in our brains. And sometimes we listen more to one than the other. You've heard people in sports talking about messing up at the play cause they over-thought, it, you know, thinking too hard about it.

1 (1h 15m 59s):
That's partly, you've already trained your SAR, cerebellum, how to hit a fastball right down the middle.

0 (1h 16m 5s):
And if you start looking for, for something new or different, you're going to mess up your, your reflexive swing, right? If you're,

1 (1h 16m 12s):
I think about the physics of the ball as it's coming at you, you've already missed. Right. You know, cause he, you know, you're not using your, this, all those reps have built a kind of knowledge is what you want to rely on when you don't have enough time to contemplate.

0 (1h 16m 28s):
This is important and a great segue for what I'd like to discuss next was it, which is the basal ganglia. This really interesting of the area of the brain that's involved in NGO type commands and behaviors instructing us to do things. And no-go preventing us from doing things because so much of motor learning and skill execution. And I'm not saying the wrong thing or sitting still in class when, or as you used with the tea with the queen example, feeling discomfort involves suppressing behavior. And sometimes it's activating behavior, right. You know, a tremendous amount of online attention is devoted to trying to get people motivated.

0 (1h 17m 11s):
You know, this isn't the main focus of our podcasts. We touch on some of the underlying neural circuits of, of motivation, dopamine and so forth. But so much of what people struggle with out there are elements around failure to pay attention, right. Or challenges in paying attention, which is essentially like putting the blinders on Nair, you know, getting a soda straw view of the world and maintaining that for a bout of work or something of that sort and trying to get into action. So of course this is carried out by many. Neurocircuits not just the basal ganglia, but what are the basal ganglia and what are their primary roles in controlling go type behavior and no-go type behavior.

1 (1h 17m 52s):
Yeah. So I mean, th the basal ganglia are sitting deep in what you would call the forebrain. So the highest levels of the brain, they are sort of cousins to the cerebral cortex, which we talked about is sort of the highest level of your brain, that the thing you're thinking,

0 (1h 18m 10s):
Cerebral cortex being the refined cousins, and then you've got the, you know, the brutes. Yeah.

1 (1h 18m 15s):
I mean, that's probably totally unfair, but

0 (1h 18m 18s):
I like the basal ganglia. I can relate to the brooder parts of the brain. A little bit of hypothalamus lobe is a basal ganglia. Sure.

1 (1h 18m 26s):
We need it all. We need it all. And you know, this area of the brain has gotten a lot bigger as the cortex has gotten bigger and it's deeply intertwined with critical function. The cortex can't really do what it needs to do without the help of the basal ganglia and vice versa. So they're really intertwined. And in a way you can think about this logically is saying, you know, if, if you have the ability to withhold behavior or to execute it, how do you decide which to do well? The cortex is going to have to do that thinking for you. You have to be looking at all the contingencies of your situation and decide, is this a crazy move, or is this a really smart investment right now?

1 (1h 19m 10s):
Or, you know

0 (1h 19m 11s):
What, I don't want to go out for a run in the morning when I'm going to make myself go out for a run or I'm having a great time out on a run. And I know I need to get back, but I kind of want to go another mile.

1 (1h 19m 21s):
Great example is that, you know, the marshmallow test for the little kids, you know, they can get two marshmallows if they hold off, you know, just 30 seconds initially, you know, they can have one right away, but if they can wait 30 seconds, they got to, you know, so that's the no-go because their cortex is saying, you know, I really like to have two more than having one, but they're not going to get the two, unless they can not reach for the one. So they've got to hold off the action and that has to result from a cognitive process. So the cortex is involved in this in a major way.

0 (1h 19m 58s):
Yeah. As I recall in that experiment, the kids used a variety of tools to some would distract themselves. I particularly related to the kid that would just put himself right next to the marshmallows and then wood. And then some of the kids covered their eyes. Some of them would count or sing. Yeah. So that's all very critical, right. Coming up with a novel strategy, simple example that we're using here. But of course this is at play. Anytime someone decides they want to go watch a motivational speech or something, just, you know, a Steve jobs, commencement speech, just to get motivated to engage.

1 (1h 20m 26s):
Sure. I'd take this new job and it's got great benefits, but it's an allows you part of the country.

0 (1h 20m 32s):
Why do you think that some people have a harder time running these go-no-go circuits and other people seem to have very low activation energy. We would say they can just, you know, they have a task, they just lean into the task. Whereas some people getting into tasks, completion, or things of that sort is, is very challenging for them. Yeah.

1 (1h 20m 53s):
I mean, I think it's really just another, it's a special case of a very general phenomenon, which is brains are complicated and brains res you know, the rains we have are the result of genetics and experience, and my genes are different from your genes and my experiences are different from your experiences. So the things that are be easy or hard for us won't necessarily be aligned. They, they might just happen to be just because they are. But the point is that, you know, you, you're dealt a certain set of cards. You have certain set of genes, you are handed a, you know, a brain you don't choose, your brain is handed to you, but then there's all this stuff you can do with it. You know, you, you can learn to, you know, to, to have new skills or to act differently, or to show more restraint, which is kind of relevant to what we're talking about here.

1 (1h 21m 44s):
Or maybe show less restraint if your problem is you're so buttoned down, you never have any fun in life. You should loosen up a little bit. Thank you.

0 (1h 21m 51s):
I appreciate that. So, yeah, David's always encouraged me to have a little more fun in life. So basal ganglia are, they're kind of the disciplinarian or th there's there's sort of the instructor or conductor of sorts, right? Go no-go, you know, you be quiet. You start now.

1 (1h 22m 12s):
I wish I knew more about the basal ganglia. Then I, then I do my sense is that it, you know, this system is key for implementing the plans that get cooked up in the cortex, but they also influenced the plans that the, you know, cortex is, is dishing out because this is a major source of information to the cortex. So it becomes almost impossible to figure out where the computation begins and where it ends. And who's doing what, because these things are all interacting in a complex network and it's all of it. It's the whole network. It's not, you know, one is the leader and the other is the follower. Of course.

0 (1h 22m 51s):
Yeah. These are all the structures that we're discussing are working in parallel. Right. And there's a lot of changing crosstalk. I have this somewhat sick habit, David, every day I try and do 21, no goes. So if I want to reach for my phone, I try and not do it just to see if I can prevent myself from engaging in that behavior. If it was reflexive, if it's something I want to do a deliberate choice, then I certainly allow myself to do it. I don't tend to have too much trouble with motivation with go type functions, mostly because I'm so busy that I wish I had more time for more NGOs, but so to speak.

0 (1h 23m 31s):
But do you think the circuits have genuine plasticity in,

1 (1h 23m 36s):
I mean, everybody knows how they've learned over time to wait for the two marshmallows. Right. You know, you, you don't have to have instant gratification all the time. You know what you're willing to do a job. Sometimes it isn't your favorite job because it comes with the territory and you want the salary that comes at the end of the week or the end of the month. Right. So we can defer gratification. You know, we can choose not to say the thing that we know is going to inflame our partner and create a, you know, a meltdown for the next week. You know, w w w we, we learn this control, but I think these are skills like any other, you can get better at them if you practice them. So I think you're, you're choosing to do that. Despite dangerously as a, as kind of a, you know, it's a mental practice, it's a discipline, it's a way of building a skill that you want to have.

0 (1h 24m 22s):
Yeah. I find it to be something that when I engage in a no-go type situation, then the next time, and the next time that I find myself about to move reflexively, there's a little gap in consciousness that I can inter I can make a decision whether or not this is really the best use of my time, because I, I, I sometimes wonder whether or not all this business around attention, certainly there's the case of ADHD in clinical diagnosed ADHD, but all these of the issue around focus and attention is really that people just have not really learned how to short circuit a reflux and so much of what makes us different than rattlesnakes, or they will actually, they could be deliberate, but from the other animals and is our ability to suppress reflux.

0 (1h 25m 6s):
Yeah.

1 (1h 25m 7s):
Well, that's the cortex admin, or let's say the forebrain cortex and basal ganglia working together, sitting on top of this lizard brain, that's giving you all these great adaptive reflexes that help you survive. You just hope you don't get the surprising case where the thing that your reflex is telling you is actually exactly the wrong thing. And you make a mistake. Right. And that's right. So that's what the cortex is for. It's adding nuance and context and experience past association and in human beings, obviously learning from others through, you know, communication.

0 (1h 25m 41s):
Well, I was, you went right to it and it was where I was going to go. So let's talk about the cortex. We've worked our way up the so-called neuraxis as the fussy and autos we'll we'll know. So we're in the cortex, this is the seat of our higher consciousness, self image, planning, and action. But as you mentioned, the cortex, isn't just about that. It's got other regions that are involved in other things. So maybe we should staying with vision. Let's talk a little bit about visual cortex. You told me a story, an amazing story about visual cortex. And it was a somewhat of a sad story, unfortunately, about someone who had a stroke to visual cortex. Maybe if you would share that story, because I think it illustrates many important principles about what the cortex does,

1 (1h 26m 25s):
Right? So, you know, the visual cortex is you could say the projection screen, the first, you know, place where this information streaming from the retina through this thalamus, connecting linker gets played out for the highest level of your brain to see. I mean, it's a representation, it's a map of things going on in the visual world, that's in your brain. And when we describe a scene to a friend, we're using this chunk of our brain, to be able to put words which are coming from a different part of our cortex, to the objects and movements and colors that we see in the world.

1 (1h 27m 13s):
So, you know, that's a key part of your visual experience when you, when you can describe the things you're seeing, you're, you're looking at your visual cortex. And this is,

0 (1h 27m 23s):
Could I just ask a good question? So right now, because I'm looking at your face, right, as we're talking, there are neurons in my brain, more or less in the configuration of your face that are active as you move about. And what if I were to close my eyes and just imagine I do this all the time, by the way, David, I close my eyes and I imagine David Burson's face, I don't tend to do that as often. Maybe I should, but you get the point I'm, I'm now using visualization of what you look like by way of memory. Right? If we were to image the neurons in my brain, would the activity of neurons resemble the activity of neurons that's present.

0 (1h 28m 7s):
When I open my eyes and look at your actual face,

1 (1h 28m 10s):
This is a deep question. We don't really have a full experiment today. Yes. Except, you know, you're talking about looking in detail at the activity of neurons in a human brain, and that's not as easy to do as, as it would be in a, you know, in some kind of animal model. But you know, the bottom line is that you, you have a spatial representation of the visual world late as a map of the visual world laid out on the surface of your cortex. The thing that's surprising is that it's not one map. It's actually dozens of maps. What are each of those maps do? Well, we don't really have a full accounting there either, but it looks a little bit like the diversification of the output neurons of the retina, the ganglion cells we were talking about before.

1 (1h 28m 57s):
There are different types of ganglion cells that are encoding different kinds of information about the visual world. We talk about the ones that were encoding the brightness, but are the ones that are in coding motion or color, these kinds of things, the same kinds of specializations in different representations of the visual world in the cortex seemed to be true. It's a complex story. We don't have the whole, the whole picture yet, but it does look as if some parts of the brain are much more important for things like reaching for things in the space around you. And other parts of the cortex are really important for making associations between particular visual things you're looking at now and their significance. What they, what, what is that object?

1 (1h 29m 38s):
What can it do for me? How can I use it?

0 (1h 29m 40s):
What about the really specialized areas of cortex? Like the areas like neurons that respond to particular faces or neurons that I don't know can help me understand where I am relative to some other specific object,

1 (1h 29m 55s):
Right? So you have this, these are our properties of neurons that are extracted from detected by recording the activity of single neurons in some experimental system what's going on when you actually perceive your grandmother's face is a much more complicated question. And it clearly involves hundreds and thousands and probably millions of neurons acting in a cooperative way. So you can pick out any one little element in this very complicated system and see that it's responding differentially to certain kinds of visual patterns. And you think you're seeing a glimpse of some part of the process by which you recognize your grandmother's face, but that's a long way from a clear, complete description.

1 (1h 30m 39s):
And it certainly, isn't going to be at the level of a magic single neuron that has the special stuff to recognize your grandmother. It's going to be in some pattern of activity, across many, many cells resonating in some kind of special way that will represent the internal, you know, memory of your, of your mother. So

0 (1h 30m 58s):
It's really incredible. I mean, I mean, every time we do this deep dive, which we do from time to time, you and I, we kind of let March into the nervous system and explore how different aspects of our, of our life experiences is handled there and how it's organized the it after so many decades of doing this. It, it still boggles my mind that, that the collection of neurons, a one through seven active in a particular sequence gives the memory of a particular face and run backwards 7 3, 2, 1. It gives you a complete, you know, it could be, you know, rattlesnake pit, Viper, heat, sensing organs, as we were talking about earlier.

0 (1h 31m 41s):
So it sounds, is it true that there's a lot of multi-purpose purposing of the circuitry. Like we can't say one area of the brain does a and another area of the brain does BS, you know, areas can multitask or have multiple jobs. They can Moonlight.

1 (1h 31m 56s):
Right. But I, I, I think in my career, the hard problem has been to square that with the fact that, you know, things are specialized, that there are specific genes expressed in specific neurons that make them make synaptic connections with only certain other neurons. And that particular synaptic arrangement actually results in the processing of information that's useful to the animal to survive. Right? So it's, it's not as if it's either a big undifferentiated network of cells and looking at any one is never going to tell you anything that's too extreme on the one hand, nor is it the case that everything is hardwired and every neuron has one function.

1 (1h 32m 43s):
And this all happens in one place in the brain. It's way more complicated and interactive and interconnected than that.

0 (1h 32m 50s):
So we're not hardwired or soft wired, both. We're sort of, I don't know what the analogy should be, what, what substance would work

1 (1h 32m 56s):
Best. They've had no idea there, but, you know, th the idea is that it's always network activity. There's always many, many neurons involved, and yet there's tremendous specificity in the neurons that might or might not be participating in any distributed function like that. Right. So you have to get your mind around the fact that it's both very specific and very non-specific at the same time. It's a little tricky to do, but I think that's kind of where the truth lies. Yeah.

0 (1h 33m 23s):
And so the, this example that you mentioned one to me once before, about a woman who had a stroke in visual cortex, I think speaks to some of this, right. Could you share with us that story?

1 (1h 33m 35s):
Sure. So the point is that you, you, all, those of us who see, have representations of the visual world and our visual cortex, what happens to somebody when they become blind, because of problems in the eye, the retina, perhaps you have a big chunk of the cortex is really valuable real estate for neural processing that has come to expect input from the visual system. And there isn't any anymore. So you might think about that as fallow land, right? It's just, it's UN UN used by the nervous system. And that would be a pity, but it turns out that it is in fact used.

1 (1h 34m 19s):
And the, the case that you're talking about is of a woman who was blind from very early in her life and who had risen through the ranks to a very high level executive secretarial position in a major corporation. And she was extremely good at braille reading, and she had a braille typewriter, and that's how everything was done. And apparently she had a stroke and was discovered at work collapsed and brought to the hospital. And apparently the neurologist who saw her when she finally came to said, you know, I've got good news and bad news, bad news is you've had a stroke. The good news is that it was in an area of your brain.

1 (1h 35m 0s):
You're not even using it's your visual cortex. And I know you're blind from birth. So there shouldn't be any issue here. The problem was she lost her ability to read braille. So what appears to have been the case, and this has been confirmed in other ways by imaging experiments in humans, is that in people who are blind from very early in birth, the visual cortex gets repurposed as an, a center for processing tactile information. And especially if you drain to be a good braille reader, you're actually reallocating somehow that real estate to your fingertips, you know, a part of the cortex that should be listening to the eyes.

1 (1h 35m 40s):
So that's an extreme level of plasticy, but what it shows is the visual cortex is kind of a general purpose processing machine is good at spatial information in the skin of your fingers is just another spatial sense and deprived by the any other input. The brain seems smart enough if you want to put it that way to rewire itself, to use that real estate for something useful in this case, reading braille,

0 (1h 36m 8s):
Incredible, somewhat tragic, but credible, at least in that case, tragic, very informed, very informative. And of course it can go the other way too, right. Where people can gain function in particular modalities like improved hearing or tactile function in the absence of vision. Right. Tell us about connectomes we hear about genomes proteomes microbiomes, ohms, ohms, ohms, these days. What's a connectome and why is it valuable?

1 (1h 36m 39s):
Yeah, so, so the connectome actually now has two meanings. So I've only referred to the one that is my passion right now. And that is really trying to understand the structure of nervous tissue at a scale that's very, very fine,

0 (1h 36m 58s):
Like smaller than a millimeter wave,

1 (1h 36m 60s):
Smaller than a millimeter, a nanometer, or less as this a thousand times smaller, or it's actually, you know, a million times smaller. So really, really tiny at, on the scale of individual synopsis between individual neurons or even smaller, like the individual synaptic vesicles containing a little packets of neurotransmitter. And again, it released to law, one neurons communicate to the next. So very, very fine. But the, the notion here is that you're doing this section after section at very fine scale. So in theory, what you have is a complete description of a chunk of nervous tissue that is so-called fleet.

1 (1h 37m 46s):
That if you took enough time to identify where the boundaries are, all the cells are, you could come up with a complete description of the synaptic wiring of that chunk of nervous, because you have a complete description of where all the cells are and where all the synapses between all the cells are. So now you essentially have a wiring diagram of this complicated piece of tissue. So the Omix part is the exhaustive ness of it, rather than looking at a couple of synapses that are interesting to you from do different cell types. You're looking at all the synopses of all of the cell types, which of course is this massive avalanche of data, right?

0 (1h 38m 23s):
So in genetics you have genetics and then you have genomics, which is the idea of getting the whole genome, all of it. And we don't really have an analogous word for genetics, but it would be connectivity and <em></em> activity. And connectomics

1 (1h 38m 38s):
Right. So it's, it's, it's wanting at all. And of course it's crazy ambitious, but you know, that's, that's where it gets fun. You know, it really, it's a use of electron microscopy, a very high resolution microscopic imaging system on a new scale with way more payoff in terms of understanding the connectivity of the nervous system. And it's just emerging. But I really think it's going to revolutionize the field because we're going to be able to query these circuits, how they actually do it, look at the hardware in a way that's never been possible before. The,

0 (1h 39m 13s):
The way I describe this to people is if you were to take a chunk of kind of cold cooked, but cold spaghetti and slice it up very thin, you're trying to connect up each image of each slice of the edge of the spaghetti as figure out which ropes of spaghetti belonged to which,

1 (1h 39m 31s):
And have it complete description of where this piece has to be at. He touches that piece of spaghetti. Is there something special there?

0 (1h 39m 37s):
So you need sauces and all the other cell types in the pesto, all where it all is around the spaghetti, because those are the other cells, the blood vessels and the glial cells. And so w what's it good for, I mean, maps are great. I always think of connectomics and genomics and proteomics, etc, as necessary, but not sufficient. Right?

1 (1h 40m 1s):
Right. So, I mean, in many cases, what you do is you go out and probe the, the function and you understand how the brain does the function by finding neurons that seem to be firing in association with, with this function that you're observing and little by little, your work, your way in, and now you want to know what the connectivity is. Maybe the anatomy could help you, but this connect home X approach, or at least the serial electron microscopy reconstruction of neurons approach really is allowing us to frame questions, starting from the anatomy and saying, I see a synaptic circuit here. My prediction would be that these cell types would interact in a particular way, is that right? And then you can go and probe the physiology and you might be right, or you might be wrong, but more often than not, it looks like the structure is pointing us in the right direction.

1 (1h 40m 49s):
So it, my case, I'm using this to try to understand a circuit that is involved in this image, image, stabilization network. We're talking about keeping things stable on the retina, and this thing will only respond at certain speeds of motion. These, these cells in this circuit like slow motion, they won't respond to fast motion. How does that come about? Well, I was able to probe the circuitry. I knew what my cells look like. I could see which other cells were talking to it. I could categorize all the cells that might be the players here that are involved in this mechanism of tuning the thing for slow speeds. And then we said, it looks like it's that cell type. And we went and looked and the data bore that up, but the anatomy drove the search for the particular cell type, because we could see it connected in the right place to the right cells that creates the hypothesis that lets you go query the physiology, but it could go the other way as well.

1 (1h 41m 44s):
So it's always the synergy between these functional instructional approaches. It gives you the, the most lift, but you know, in many cases, the anatomy has been a little bit the weak sister in this, the structure, trying to work out the diagram because we haven't had the methods. Now the methods exist and this whole field is, is expanding very quickly because people want these circuit diagrams for the particular part of the nervous system that they're working on. If you don't know the cell types and the connections, how do you really understand how the machine works?

0 (1h 42m 17s):
Yeah. What I love about is we don't know what we don't know and scientists, we don't ask questions. We pose hypothesis hypotheses being of course, some prediction that you wager your time on, basically. Right? And it either turns out to be true or not true. But if you don't know that a particular cell type is there, you could never in any configuration of life or a career or exploration of a nervous system wager a hypothesis because you didn't know it was there. So this allows you to say, ah, there's this little interesting little connection between this cell that I know is interesting. And another cell that's a little mysterious, but interesting.

0 (1h 42m 58s):
I'm going to hypothesize that it's doing blank, blank and blank and go test that. And in the absence of these connectomes you would never know that that cell was lurking there in the, in the shadows. Right?

1 (1h 43m 7s):
Right. Yeah. And if you're just trying to understand how information flows through this biological machine, you want to know where things are. You know, neurotransmitters are dumped out of the terminals of one cell and they diffuse across the space between the two cells, which is kind of a liquidy space and they hit some receptors on the postsynaptic cell and they have some impact. Sometimes that's not through a regular app, sometimes it's through a neuromodulator like you often talk about on your podcast that are sort of seeing dopamine exactly losing into the space between the cells. And it may be acting at some distance far from where it was released. Right. But if you don't know where the, the is happening and where other things are that might respond to that release, you're groping around in the dark.

0 (1h 43m 52s):
Well, I love that you are doing this. And I have to share with the listeners that the first time I ever met David and every time I've ever met with him in person, at least at his laboratory at brown, he was in his office door, closed drawing neurons and their connections. And this is somewhat unusual for somebody who's a, you know, endowed, full professor or chairman of the department, et cetera, for many years to be doing the hands-on work. Typically that's the stuff that's done by technicians or graduate students or postdocs. But I think it's fair to say that you really love looking at nervous systems and drawing the accurate renditions of how those nervous systems are organized and thinking about how they work.

1 (1h 44m 37s):
Yeah. It's pure joy for me. I mean, I'm a very visual person. My wife is an artist. We look a lot of art together. Just the forms of things are, are gorgeous in their own. Right. But to know that the form is in a sense, the function that the, that the architecture of the connectivity is how the computation happens in the brain. At some level, even though we don't fully understand that in most contexts gives me great joy because I'm working on something that's both visually beautiful, but also deeply beautiful in it. It's sort of a higher sort of a knowledge context. You know, what is it, what is it all about?

0 (1h 45m 18s):
I love it. Well, as a final question, I get asked very often about how people should learn about neuroscience or how they should go about pursuing maybe an education in neuroscience. If they're at that stage of their life, where that's appropriate for their current trajectory. Do you have any advice to young people, old people and anything in between about how to learn about the nervous system? More maybe in a more formal way. I mean, obviously we have our podcasts, there are other sources of neuroscience information out there, but for the young person who thinks they want to understand the brain, they want to learn about the brain, what should we tell them?

1 (1h 45m 55s):
Well, that's a great question. And there's so many sources out there. It's almost a question of, you know, how do you deal with this avalanche of information out there? I mean, I think our podcast is a great way for people to, to learn more about the nervous system in an accessible way, but there's so much stuff out there. And it's not just that. I mean, the resources are becoming more and more available for average folks to participate in neuroscience research on some level, there's this famous EyeWire project of Sebastian.

0 (1h 46m 22s):
Tell us about EyeWire.

1 (1h 46m 23s):
So that's connectomics and that's a situation where a very clever scientist realize that the, the physical work of doing all this reconstruction of neurons from these electron micrographs is a lot of time involved. Many, many personalities have to go into that, to come up with the map that you want of where the cells are. And he was very clever about setting up a context in which he could crowdsource this. And people were interested in getting a little experience, looking at nervous tissue in participating in a research project, could learn how to do this and do a little bit in their living room from their living room.

0 (1h 47m 2s):
Should we'll put a link to EyeWire. That's a, it also is a great bridge between what we were just talking about connectomics and actually participating in research and you don't need a graduate mentor or anything like,

1 (1h 47m 12s):
Right. So more of this is coming and I'm actually interested in building more of this so that people who are interested want to participate at some level don't necessarily have the time or resources to get involved in laboratory research can, can get exposed to it and participate in actually contribute. So I think that's, you know, one, one thing, I mean, just asking questions of the people around you who know a little bit more and have them point you in the right direction. Here's a book you might like to read. There's lots of great popular books out there that are accessible that will give you some more sense of the full range of what's out there in the neurosciences and how,

0 (1h 47m 52s):
And put some links to a few of those that we like on basic neuroscience, our good friend, Dick Maslow, and the late Richard people would call them Dick, Dick Maslin had a good book. I forget the title at the moment. It said sitting behind me somewhere over there on the shelf, but about vision and how nervous systems work, a pretty accessible book for the general public. Right? Yeah.

1 (1h 48m 13s):
So you know that and you know, there's, there's so many sources out there. I mean, Wikipedia is a great way. If you had a particular question about visual function, I would say by all means, you know, head to Wikipedia and get the first look and follow the references from there, or go to your library or, you know, there there's so many ways to get into it. It's such an exciting field. Now there's so many, I mean, any particular realm, that's specialty, you, your experience, your, you know, your strengths, your passions, there's, there's a field of neuroscience devoted to that. You know, if you've got, if you know somebody who's got a neurological problem or a psychiatric problem, there's a branch of neuroscience that is devoted to trying to understand that and to solve these kinds of problems down the line.

1 (1h 48m 58s):
So feel the, feel the buzz it's, it's an exciting time to, to get involved.

0 (1h 49m 3s):
Great. Those are great resources that people can access from anywhere. Zero costs as you need an internet connection. But aside from that, and we'll put the links to some, and I'm remembering Dick's book is called a, we know it when we see it, right. One of my heroes. Yeah. A wonderful colleague who, unfortunately we lost a few years ago, but listen, David, this has been wonderful, been a blast. We really appreciate you taking the time to do this. As people probably realized by now, you're an incredible wealth of knowledge about the entire nervous system. Today. We just hit this top contour of a number of different areas to give a flavor of the different ways that the nervous system works and is organized and how that's put together, how these areas are talking to one another.

0 (1h 49m 45s):
What I love about you is that you're such an educator and, and I've taught so many students over the years, but also for me personally, as friends, but also anytime that I want to touch into the, the beauty of the nervous system, I rarely lose touch with it, but anytime I want to touch into it and, and start thinking about new problems in ways that the nervous system is doing things that I hadn't thought about, I call you. So I please forgive me for the calls past, present, and future, unless you changed your number. And even if you do, I'll be calling,

2 (1h 50m 16s):
It's been such a blast. And you know, this has been a great session and it's always fun talking to you is always gets my brain racing. So thank you.

0 (1h 50m 28s):
Thank you. Thank you for joining me today for my discussion with Dr. David Berson. By now, you should have a much clearer understanding of how the brain is organized and how it works to do all the incredible things that it does. If you're enjoying and or learning from this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to our podcast on apple and Spotify and on apple, you have the opportunity to leave us up to a five-star review as well. If you'd like to make suggestions for future podcast, episode topics or a future podcast, episode guests, please put those in the comment section on our YouTube channel. Please also check out. Our sponsors mentioned at the beginning of each podcast, that's the best way to support us.

0 (1h 51m 12s):
And we have a Patrion it's patrion.com/andrew Huberman. There, you can support us at any level that you like

Thorne (1h 51m 18s):
while today's discussion did not focus on supplements. Many previous podcast episodes include discussions about supplements and while supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive benefit from them for things like sleep or focus or anxiety relief. And so on one issue with the supplement industry, however, is that oftentimes the quality will really vary across brands. That's why we partnered with thorn T H R I ne because Thorne supplements are of the absolute highest standards in terms of the quality of the ingredients that include and the precision of the amounts of the ingredients they include. In other words, what's listed on the bottle is what's actually found in the bottle, which is not true of many supplements out there that have been tested. If you'd like to see the supplements that I take, you can go to thorne.com/the letter U slash Huberman. And there, you can see the supplements that I take and you can get 20% off any of those supplements. And if you navigate deeper into the thorn site, through that portal for in.com/the letter U slash Huberman, you can also get 20% off any of the other supplements that thorn happens to make.

0 (1h 52m 20s):
If you're not already following Huberman lab on Instagram and Twitter, feel free to do so. Both places, I regularly post short video posts or text posts that give tools related to health and neuroscience and so forth. And most of the time that information is non-overlapping with the information on the podcast. Again, it's just Huberman lab on Instagram and Twitter, and last but not least, thank you for your interest in science.