0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science and science based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. My guest today is Dr. Sean Mackey. Dr. Sean Mackey is a medical doctor that is, he treats patients as well as a PhD, meaning he runs a laboratory. He's the chief of the Division of pain medicine and a professor of both Anesthesiology and Neurology at Stanford University School of Medicine. Today we discuss what is pain. Most of us are familiar with the notion of pain from having a physical injury or some sort of Chronic, Pain or a headache.

0 (42s):
Today, Dr. Mackey makes clear what the origins of pain are both in the nervous system and outside the nervous system. That is the interactions between the Brain and the body that give rise to this thing that we call pain Indeed. We discuss the critical link between physical pain and Emotional Pain and how altering one's perception of emotional or physical pain can often change the other. We also discussed some of the changes in the nervous system that occur when we experience pain and how that can give rise to Chronic Pain. We also, of course, cover different methods to reduce pain safely, and those methods include Behavioral tools, psychological tools, nutrition, supplementation, and of course prescription drugs.

0 (1m 25s):
We discuss the intimate relationship between temperature that is heat and cold and pain and pain relief. So if you're interested in the use of heat or cold to modulate pain, that conversation ought to be of interest as well. We also touch on some highly controversial topics such as Opioids. Opioids are a substance that your body naturally makes, but of course many people are familiar with Exogenous Opioids. That is opioids that are available as drugs. And the so-called Opioid Crisis, Dr. Mackey, makes very clear which specific clinical circumstances warrant the use of Exogenous Opioids with, of course a warning about their potent addictive potential. And we get into a bit of discussion about where the Opioid Crisis and the use of opioid drugs to control pain is and is going.

0 (2m 11s):
Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public In. keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors I today's podcast.

AeroPress (2m 28s):
Our first Sponsor is AeroPress. AeroPress is similar to a French press for making coffee, but is in fact a much better way to make coffee. The AeroPress was developed by Alan Adler, who's an engineer at Stanford. I knew of Alan because I used to see him in my hometown of Palo Alto Tess flying the So-called Robbi Frisbee. So he was sort of famous around my town as this brilliant engineer that would create these unusual products. So when I heard about the AeroPress, I got it. I tried it and I absolutely loved it because it does Indeed create the best tasting cup of coffee or loose leaf tea. With AeroPress, you can brew an incredible tasting coffee or tea and clean up the whole process in less than two minutes. The key thing to know about the AeroPress is that it's not just some trivial variation on the French press. That shortened brewing time that the AeroPress uses really changes the flavor of your cup of coffee or tea. It makes it exceptionally smooth. If you'd like to try AeroPress, you can go to AeroPress dot com slash Huberman. That's A-E-R-O-P-R-E-S s.com/ Huberman to get 20% off any AeroPress coffee maker, AeroPress ships anywhere in the SA Canada and over 60 other countries around the world. Again, that's AeroPress dot com slash Huberman to get 20% off.

Levels (3m 43s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Levels. Levels is a program that lets you see how different foods and activities impacts your blood glucose levels using a continuous glucose monitor, one of the most important factors impacting your energy levels as well as your immediate and long term health are your blood glucose levels, sometimes referred to as your blood sugar levels. To maintain mental and physical energy and focus, you want your blood glucose levels to be relatively stable throughout the day levels. Makes it extremely easy to determine how specific foods and food combinations, meal timing, exercise and sleep work alone and in combination to impact your blood glucose levels. I started using levels about two years ago and find it to be immensely beneficial. It's helped me better arrange what I eat, when I eat, when to exercise, and my sleep patterns. So if you're interested in learning more about levels and trying a CG M yourself, go to Levels, link slash Huberman levels has launched a new CGM sensor that is smaller and has even better tracking than the previous versions. Right now, they're also offering an additional two free months of membership. Again, that's levels link, LIK slash Huberman.

BetterHelp (4m 52s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by BetterHelp. BetterHelp offers professional therapy with a licensed therapist carried out online. Now I've been going to therapy for well over 30 years. Initially I didn't have a choice. It was a condition of being allowed to stay in school, but pretty soon I realized that therapy is extremely valuable. In fact, I consider doing regular therapy just as important as getting regular exercise, including cardiovascular exercise and resistance training, which of course I also do every week. The reason I know therapy is so valuable is that if you can find a therapist with whom you can develop a really good rapport, you not only get terrific support for some of the challenges in your life, but you also can derive tremendous insights from that therapy insights that can allow you to better not just your emotional life and your relationship life, but of course also the relationship to yourself and to your professional life, to all sorts of career goals. In fact, I see therapy is one of the key components for meshing together all aspects of one's life and being able to really direct one's focus and attention toward what really matters. With BetterHelp, they make it extremely easy to find a therapist that's ideal for your needs, your life circumstances, and that can match to your schedule in a very convenient way. If you'd like to try BetterHelp, go to BetterHelp dot com slash Huberman to get 10% off your first month. Again, that's BetterHelp dot com slash Huberman.

0 (6m 11s):
And now for my discussion with Dr. Sean Mackey, Dr. Mackey, welcome.

2 (6m 15s):
Oh, it's a pleasure to be here. Thank you. Yeah,

0 (6m 18s):
This is a long time coming. We're colleagues at Stanford and I'm familiar with your work, but today we're going to take a pretty broad and deep survey of this thing called pain. So I'll just start off very simply and ask, what is pain?

2 (6m 35s):
Pain is this complex and subjective experience that serves a crucial role for all of us to keep us away from injury or harm. It is both a sensory and an emotional experience, and I think that gets lost on people. That includes this emotional component to it, and It is incredibly individual, and we'll get more into that hopefully as time goes by that you know, your pain is different from my pain and is different from everybody else's. It takes an incredible toll on society when it goes Chronic, when it becomes persistent to the tune of about a hundred million Americans, and at last count, about a half a trillion dollars a year in medical expenses.

2 (7m 24s):
So an astounding problem we're facing in society and one that's only getting worse. And I'm hoping during the course of this discussion that we can kind of break down a little bit of the foundation of pain and kind of build it back up. Because unfortunately in society there's a lot of misunderstanding about what pain is. And I think hopefully we can build that foundation and then layer on some some useful treatments and useful options for people.

0 (7m 52s):
I'm glad you pointed out this link between the sensory and the emotional experience. Every once in a while I'll pull something or I'll have a, you know, like a kink in my neck or my back. And fortunately for me it resolves pretty quickly. But I notice that when I'm experiencing that kind of pain, that I become slightly more irritable, perhaps much more irritable, depending on who you ask. And that everything becomes more challenging. Thinking is harder, sleeping is harder, concentrating on anything besides the pain, it's, it's a, it's as if something's nagging from the inside. And so that raises the, the next question that I have, which is, is pain something that's in our brain, in our body, or both?

2 (8m 36s):
It's clearly in our brain. And can I take a moment to kinda lay a little foundation for some of that to help clear up some of the mystery please of pain? We know that pain, most pain all starts with some stimulus, whether it be that kink in your neck or your shoulder from working out or turning the wrong way and what's going on there in your body is not pain. What's going on is that there are sensors in our skin or soft tissue or deep tissues called nociceptors, and these nociceptors are sensing elements and they sense different types of stimuli. They can sense temperature, heat, cold, they sense pressure, they can sense Ph changes due to, for instance, Inflammation that may occur from any something going on in your neck or your shoulder.

2 (9m 28s):
Those sense signals up nerve fiber types. And the two that we we refer to are a delta and C fibers. One transmits very fast. It's responsible that, you know, sharp jolt of pain that goes to your brain when we, you know, step on attack or put our hand on a hot stove. And there's another fiber called a C fiber, which is much slower and responsible for that dull achy pain. Now these signals, they go to the spinal cord, like up and down our, from our head down to our our back, and they're, they're shaped, they're changed a little bit. They then are sent up to the Brain and it's once they hit the Brain and they converge with this magical mystery set of nerves in the Brain that it becomes the experience of pain.

2 (10m 16s):
And if there's one key message I'd like to get to the audience is that what goes on out here, what goes on in your shoulder, in your neck is not pain. That's nociception. Those are electrical signals, electric chemical impulses being transmitted. And that is to be distinguished from what becomes the subjective experience of pain that you have. And why it's critical is that our brain serves so many functions of emotions, cognitions, memory, action, all of that shapes those signals coming in from our body to create your unique experience of pain that's different from everybody else's.

2 (11m 5s):
And I think that's important to note because we're frequently left with this notion of this one-to-one concordance between the stimulus and the experience of pain. You know, Renee Descartes, that French philosopher, I think 17th century was the one who first postulated this idea of this direct linkage between the body and our actions and the stimulus and the response. And it's wrong. And unfortunately, even in medical care, we have this biomedical model that still is perpetuating this idea of a one-to-one relationship.

2 (11m 46s):
And that's a critically important point to get across in large part because frequently as humans we tend to project onto others our own experiences of pain. And when we see somebody who's got an injury or something else going on, we immediately put that on them. And that has also been a problem with many people suffering in Chronic Pain, which is often viewed as the invisible disease.

0 (12m 13s):
So when you say we put that on them, you mean when somebody reports being in pain, we have a hard time understanding what they're are experiencing because it's going to be very different than the way that we experience pain. Conversely, if somebody's in pain, they tend to assume that people are experiencing pain the way that they are. Do I have that right?

2 (12m 32s):
You have it perfectly right. And it actually, if I can build on that gets worse because sometimes you have conditions like fibromyalgia that maybe we'll get into where outwardly, visibly you don't see anything wrong. We're used to thinking of pain as a fractured, you know, bone as a, a swollen ankle. We see that and then we're like, okay, well you've got pain, you've got legitimate pain. Whereas this invisible disease of Chronic Pain frequently, you don't have something outwardly that you're seeing. But we bring in our own history of pain and we put that on other people.

0 (13m 5s):
I have a question that somewhat mechanistic, but we'll keep it accessible to anybody regardless of their background. So you mentioned the nociceptors are in the body and everywhere in the body and on the surface of the body to be able to detect certain kinds of stimuli. And then those signals are sent up into the Brain, and the Brain creates this subjective experience that we call pain. Is there a dedicated set of areas in the Brain that are something akin to like a pain pathway? And the reason I ask this is that for, you know, for vision, for hearing, for touch, we probably all experience those somewhat differently. Your perception of red is probably a little different than my perception. Red. We don't know for sure. Okay. But experiments support that idea.

0 (13m 48s):
But there's a major difference between people experiencing the same thing differently according to like a mysterious mechanism in the Brain, as opposed to like an area in the Brain that we can look and say like, hey, like, like that's where pain is represented. That's where all these, these inputs from the body are put together to create this thing that we call pain. Like is there an area of the, the thalamus, a structure in the middle of the Brain that takes incoming sensory information that we could say, oh, that's the pain pathway. Is there a part of our neocortex, the outer shell of the, the Brain more or less beneath the skull, but nonetheless on the outer portion of the human brain that we could say, oh, that's where pain exists. Or is it a distributed phenomenon?

2 (14m 28s):
Yeah, that's a great question. And you know, 'cause we'd all love it, there was a pain center in the Brain that we could just go knock out. But it's not that simple. And in part because pain is such a conserved phenomenon, it It is there, It is so wonderful because It is so terrible unless it goes wrong. But when you knock out one pathway going to the Brain, there's others there that will carry that system forward and you'll still experience pain. And it's there to keep us all alive. Now, to get to your point, no, there's not one pain brain area. It is thought to be more of a distributed network of different brain systems.

2 (15m 14s):
We at one point in time called it the pain matrix, which represented areas such as the insular cortex, the cingulate cortex, the amygdala, a number of these brain regions that all suber different functions. We're moving away from that because it seems like every year or so we pick up another region of the Brain that's contributing to this network that subserves some additional functions, some nuanced layer to it. That said, we have been able to identify some common signatures, common brain networks that seem to represent the experience of pain.

2 (15m 54s):
And this is where the development of brain-based biomarkers has come in. And this is some of the work that I've done starting, gosh, well over a dozen years ago and others have been building on. And what we're finding is that there does seem to be this, this conserved region set of distributed regions that do represent the experience of pain.

0 (16m 15s):
So when somebody takes a so-called painkiller, let, let's take a typical over-the-counter painkiller like a Ibuprofen or acetaminophen to lessen pain of some kind. Yeah. Where is that drug or drugs acting? Is it in the body or is it at the level of the Brain or both?

2 (16m 36s):
Yeah. And this is where some of the challenges we get into with language, because technically NSAIDs, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like Ibuprofen, like Naprosyn, they're actually not Analgesics, they're not technically pain killers.

0 (16m 51s):
So an analgesic is the descriptor for a quote unquote pain killer.

2 (16m 55s):
Yeah, they're, that would be more correct, like an opioid would be, would fit into that category. The NSAIDs are anti-inflammatory drugs. They're also, there's another, this is a technical term, they're anti hyperalgesic drugs. And so one of the things that happens after an injury is that we get Sensitization of the area that's injured. And it's a beautiful thing because it sends a message to us to protect it. What the NSAIDs do is they reduce some of that Sensitization out in the periphery and then back in the spinal cord and in the Brain, but they don't actually, so for instance, I was gonna say try this at home, but probably not.

2 (17m 39s):
You can in a normal situation, you know, hit your hand with a fork, measure the amount of pain, I'll go take an NSAID like Ibuprofen. If you hit your hand with that same fork, there'll be no difference

0 (17m 52s):
Folks, please don't do that.

2 (17m 53s):
Don't do that at home, please. Yeah,

0 (17m 54s):
Yeah. Or to your neighbor or anywhere for that matter, or anywhere for that matter. But you're describing pain and the local Inflammation response and the hyperalgesia, the increase in pain in that general area as something very adaptive, very important. So it raises the question, what is the Threshold for saying that somebody should treat their pain, reduce their pain? I mean, you know, anytime I've done, you know, surgeries on animals, which I don't do anymore in the laboratory, but we used to, you know, you would give them painkillers, postoperatively. I've had surgeries before, I had painkillers postoperatively, although I don't like taking them, I don't like the way they make my brain feel. And so, but we of course know that if you increase the dose of any pain medication too much, then that animal or a human can potentially injure themselves worse or not protect that injured area.

0 (18m 46s):
So it, it raises a, a whole set of, oh, sort of medical ethical, but also just purely biological questions. How do you set the Threshold for yes, blunt pain versus no, allow the pain to be there as an adaptive way of protecting yourself and healing. Presumably the Inflammation is part of the healing process too. And as you mentioned before, pain is so subjective and it's different between all of us. I mean, how do we decide whether or not it's a good or bad idea to blunt that pain?

2 (19m 15s):
Yeah, I think the, the, the Threshold is when it's impacting your quality of life and your ability to take care of the activities of daily living, engage with family, friends, go to work, and that that serves kind of a, your, your Threshold for, you know, whether it's reasonable to, to take a medication or not. It's a lot of controversy in the space right now. It used to be we all recommended just NSAIDs for any type of acute injury Ibuprofen.

0 (19m 41s):
So NSAID It is nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs.

2 (19m 44s):
Is that

0 (19m 44s):
Right? Indeed? Could, could we maybe list off a few of those? So I mentioned Ibuprofen, acetaminophen, so sometimes referred to as, you know, the classic Advil Tylenol, we won't throw out name brands there, but what are some others? Naproxen?

2 (19m 56s):
Naproxen is another one. Toradol or Ketorolac is another one. The two over the counter NSAIDs, the prototypical over the counter ones are Ibuprofen and Naprosyn. Those are the ones you can buy over the counter without a prescription. Tylenol actually has a slightly different mechanism of injury, but you know, still fits in that same general class. It tends to be more centrally acting ib, Tylenol or acetaminophen. But taking,

0 (20m 22s):
When you say centrally, you mean brain, brain,

2 (20m 24s):
Brain. Thank you. Yeah, thank

0 (20m 25s):
You Brain. And, and is Aspirin considered an nsaid? I don't believe

2 (20m 28s):
It is. Yeah. Aspirin would fit into that category of basically a Cox Cyclooxygenase inhibitor. This is one of the, the chemical mediators that gets released during injury. And that chemical substance has a tendency to wind up or amplify the nociceptors so that after an injury, you note that you're more sensitive there after a sunburn, you end up having more Sensitization. That is what we refer to as peripheral Sensitization because it's out in the periphery, we're winding up or amplifying the response. Aspirin NSAIDs in general will reduce that Inflammation, they're anti hyperalgesic and pardon again, the jargony terms that we use.

2 (21m 17s):
Hopefully it, it's

0 (21m 18s):
Coming across that's why people along as we go.

2 (21m 19s):
But, but you know, to your point, you don't want to, for instance, let's imagine you have a fractured ankle. You don't want to be reaching for a very potent opioid just so that you can continue walking on a fractured ankle that you haven't gotten evaluated by a clinician and perhaps casted that wouldn't be safe. Those are rather extreme examples. You know, we get into those debates, right? In professional sports where, you know, they, they send the person back out on the field with a broken bone, you know, having given them a, an injection or something. I'm, I'm hoping that doesn't go on anymore, but

0 (22m 0s):
I'm sure it goes on. Okay.

2 (22m 2s):
Yeah,

0 (22m 2s):
Well there's all sorts of other things. I get contacted all the time, professional teams and athletes asking how they can get back in quicker. Nowadays the big thing are these peptides that can certainly accelerate healing. People are traveling out of country, get stem cell injections. Oh yeah. All with, all with very few randomized control trials. But I assure you that courtside and in the locker room, mainly in the locker room, they're corticosterone injections. They're painkiller injections. I mean it's, it's not play at any expense. Yeah. But it's not far from that. Okay. Yeah.

2 (22m 32s):
Yeah. Well, you know, when you're, you're making millions of dollars a year and I, I get the being back on the field, but for the rest of us mere mortals, I think that's where we would want to draw a line, get medical attention if you've got an acute injury,

0 (22m 47s):
Going a little bit deeper into mechanism because I think it's gonna serve us well now and going forward. You mentioned the NSAIDs and this COX Cox is one, It is a, is it in the family of prostaglandins? Yeah. Can we talk about prostaglandins? Because I think there are a lot of people nowadays we hear about Inflammation. Yeah. You know, inflammation's bad, inflammation's bad. But you know, one of the things that we talk about a lot on this podcast is the fact that, you know, cortisol isn't bad, Inflammation isn't bad. Yeah. These things serve a, an important biological role. So the prostaglandins seem to be one of the main ways that our Immune system responds to a physical or chemical injury and, and creates Inflammation. And that it, as you said, that Inflammation sensitizes an area makes it literally more sensitive.

0 (23m 28s):
Yeah. And then we introduce these drugs that to restore normal functioning and living, could we establish like what normal functioning is? I mean, for instance, if we make this really concrete, could we say, well if you can sleep fall asleep at night and stay asleep, or perhaps go back to sleep after you've woken up in the middle of the night, then well you heal during sleep. And so, you know, take as little painkiller as possible, but enough that still lets you sleep well at night is that it's sort of normal functioning because I, yeah, when I have a kink in my neck, I don't wanna do much of anything. I try, but it's really frustrating. So what is, I mean, as a physician, how, and as a patient, how do we determine normal functioning?

2 (24m 13s):
Yeah, and you're getting into the nuance, the complexity of this problem because we've been talking about NSAIDs, the Ibuprofen and Naprosyn. And as I said early on, we used to just give these out all the time. But then the research comes out and shows that by blocking Inflammation, by blocking that we may be blocking the normal healing process. And so we've seen delays in fracture repair, we've been seeing delays in tissue repair. And so now you've got on one hand a medication that may help with pain, help you improve function. You've got, on the other hand, something you're taking that may delay the process.

2 (24m 54s):
Where do you draw the line as a physician? My approach is really basically what you said, it's balancing the fact that if you're not sleeping at night, you're not gonna heal and you're not gonna be able to do what you need to do the next day. And if taking an NSAID helps you sleep and helps you engage with what you need to do, take it at the lowest dose that you can get away with.

0 (25m 20s):
I've heard before that NSAIDs should be taken no more than once every six hours. People will alternate different types of NSAIDs. Oh yeah. Every three hours. That's usually to try and reduce fever. Another situation where an adaptive response fever, you know, people go out of their way to block it, right? Yeah. To prevent the Brain from cooking, but again opens up the same set of issues. And so I'm wondering if somebody has some pain that makes, you know, moving about frustrating and it's, and it's difficult, but you know, they can sleep at night reasonably well, maybe not as well as they normally do. Would your suggestion to that person if their goal is to heal as quickly as possible, to just not take anything?

2 (25m 58s):
Yeah, so we've got a lot more data on the benefits of NSAIDs, this class of medication reducing pain than we have data showing the bad consequences of it. And so we are still needing more data on the whole healing message. I think that a lot of the orthopedic surgeons out there prefer people not to be on NSAIDs after, for instance, a total hip replacement, a total knee replacement. 'cause I think that's pretty clear, but that's not what we're talking about right now. So one of the other interesting things about NSAIDs, like we mentioned Ibuprofen and Naprosyn, huge individual variability around those. So personally Ibuprofen is not very effective for me.

2 (26m 40s):
Naprosyn is for others it may be just exactly the opposite. So there's value in rotating them and finding out which works best for your particular situation. You mentioned the timing of it. Ibuprofen is typically given no more than three times a day. It's got a short half-life napn twice a day. What's critical I need to give this message is in both situations make sure that you have food in your stomach. Make sure you're not taking it on an empty stomach. Make sure you're drinking plenty of fluids. And if you've got any GI issues, if you've got any bleeding issues, if you've got kidney issues, if you've got heart issues, talk to your doc, talk to your clinician before you embark on this.

2 (27m 26s):
Because these medications do have side effects and adverse consequences in vulnerable people.

0 (27m 32s):
And what about Aspirin? I've heard that Aspirin can benefit heart health. So I take a baby Aspirin every day and if I have a pain that is just too intense for normal functioning as we're defining it, then I'll increase that dose of Aspirin. And I just assume Aspirin is the healthiest and sad for me because, well, it's also good for heart health and it's killing pain in those instances as opposed to taking anything else. Is my logic flawed? And if It is, feel free to tell me.

2 (27m 57s):
Nah. For, for you, your logic is perfect and that's where it gets to the individual person. And for a lot of people that model would work as well. So baby Aspirin 81 milligrams a day acts as an anti-platelet agent. It helps, you know, here, even though we're getting controversy over the role of baby Aspirin, if you dive into the current literature,

0 (28m 16s):
Even baby Aspirin is

2 (28m 17s):
Controversial, even baby Aspirin these these days. And now what they're doing with, with the data is defining age ranges. When they say Baby Aspirin, yes, baby Aspirin, no. And so, you know, we're learning a lot more about that. I still take a baby Aspirin every day.

0 (28m 32s):
Yeah,

2 (28m 33s):
I take a baby Aspirin, you get to the higher doses, say four times as much, up around 325 milligrams or so. It's now an anti-inflammatory. It's now acting more like the Ibuprofen and the Naprosyn. So different mechanism of action at different doses.

AG1 (28m 52s):
I'd like to take a brief moment and thank one of our sponsors and that's AG one. AG one is a Vitamin mineral probiotic drink that also contains adaptogens. I started taking AG one way back in 2012. And the reason I started taking it, and the reason I still take it every day is that it ensures that I meet all of my quotas for vitamins and minerals and it ensures that they get enough prebiotic and probiotic to support gut health. Now, gut health is something that over the last 10 years we realized is not just important for the health of our gut, but also for our Immune system and for the production of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators things like dopamine and serotonin. In other words, gut health is critical for proper brain functioning. Now of course, I strive to consume healthy whole foods for the majority of my nutritional intake every single day. But there are a number of things in AG. One, including specific micronutrients that are hard to get from Whole Foods or at least in sufficient quantities. So AG one allows me to get the vitamins and minerals that I need. Probiotics, prebiotics, the adaptogens and critical micronutrients. So anytime somebody asks me if they were to take just one supplement, what that supplement should be, I tell them AG one, because AG one supports so many different systems within the body that are involved in mental health, physical health and performance. To try AG one, go to drink AG one.com/ Huberman and you'll get a year's supply of Vitamin D three K two, and five free travel packs of AG one. Again, that's drink AG one.com/ Huberman.

0 (30m 20s):
I promise we won't go into every medication in such detail, but, but these are the most commonly used over the counter treatments for pain as far as I know. Are there any issues with, you know, people who drink Caffeine who then are taking these drugs? Or like what are some of the, the interactions that these things can have? As far as I know, Caffeine actually touches into the prostaglandin pathway, doesn't it? Yes.

2 (30m 42s):
And that's where, you know, Caffeine can be used effectively for headaches, for migraines, and it can help potentiate the analgesic response. Some people get stomach irritation though with Caffeine. So just again, mind that you take an NSAID with a lot of coffee, have some food in your stomach, you know, you brought up earlier acetaminophen or Tylenol Tylenol doesn't have the same side effect or adverse event profile that the NSAIDs do. So Tylenol is safe on the stomach. Where you need to be careful about Tylenol is not to exceed 4,000 milligrams or four grams per day in divided doses.

2 (31m 27s):
So two extra strength Tylenol done four times a day for many people is safe. Some say two grams, some say four grams. The key here is around your liver. So if you've got good liver function, if you're not abusing alcohol, that's a general rule of thumb that you can use for Tylenol, but it's not gonna upset your stomach. There are versions of the NSAIDs that we refer to as COX two inhibitors. They're very selective like Celecoxib, that is less irritating on the stomach. That's by prescription only though.

2 (32m 7s):
But you can think of it as working very much the same as the Naprosyn and the Ibuprofen. So talk with your clinician, you know, to, to try to tease those apart. If you have problems in your stomach with the NSAIDs and they're really effective for you, you can be given other types of medications that help block or reduce the GI issues associated with the NSAIDs.

0 (32m 32s):
Very useful information. Thank you. Here we're talking about chemical interventions to the pain process. What about mechanical interventions? So I was taught in my basic neuroscience about, I think it's meza and walls, gait theory of pain. Do I have this right where, you know, we all have this instinctual response, animals have it too, right? If they, you bump your knee or your toe that you grab and you kind rub it and that that rubbing response is actually contributing to the activation of a Neural pathway that does Indeed reduce the pain through a legitimate Neural inhibition. And tell me if this is still considered correct and then I'll let you elaborate on it. But I think that is an opportunity for us to also talk more generally or for you to educate us more generally on the, the mechanistic interventions for pain.

0 (33m 19s):
Like maybe massage above or below the site of pain, maybe acupuncture. So again, there will be chemical consequences of any mechanical intervention, right? As we know. 'cause that's the language of the nervous system, electricity and chemicals. But as opposed to taking a drug, you can imagine using manual stimulation or rubbing around it or, or perhaps we can also talk about heat and cold. So can we explore that space a bit?

2 (33m 46s):
Absolutely. And first you're right. So in your first part, pat Patrick, wall Ron Mazak luminaries in the field of pain back in the sixties defined the gait control theory of pain. And one of the things to build on the story that we talked about with nociceptors going to the spinal cord signals, going to the spinal cord heading up to the Brain where the perception of pain occurs. That's not where the story ends. It turns out there are pathways that come down from the Brain down from the Brain to the spinal cord that act in an inhibitory role. And we'll build on those also from the periphery.

2 (34m 27s):
We've got also fibers called touch fibers. These are the ones where they get activated with light touch stroking. They're referred to as a beta fibers. They're fast conducting, they head back to the spinal cord and they make some connections with those nociceptive fibers. So with that gr grounding, imagine what you said, you're, you hit your thumb with a hammer, you, you bang something on an extremity. What is the first thing you do when you hit your thumb with a hammer? Some people rub it, I

0 (35m 5s):
Yell.

2 (35m 5s):
Some people swear. And it turns out there are studies that show that swearing works really swearing reduces pain better

0 (35m 12s):
Than, than using non explicative. Yes. Loud vocalizations. Yes.

2 (35m 18s):
Swearing works. I don't know why, but there's been, it it, it cut some press when that paper came out and yeah, I don't, I'm not giving carte blanche. We're not saying everybody can go out and swear every time they're in pain. Well,

0 (35m 30s):
They can, but they'll have to bear the consequences on an individual basis. Thank you. We're not, we're, we're absolving ourselves of any responsibility. Right.

2 (35m 37s):
So rubbing shaking is another one, which basically is activating those touch fibers. Oh, It is

0 (35m 43s):
Putting 'cause I do that. Yeah.

2 (35m 45s):
Ah,

0 (35m 45s):
Damn. Everybody does that.

2 (35m 46s):
Everybody does that. Running it under water, which, you know, it doesn't matter whether, you know, in this case it's hot or it's cold water, it's the running of the water underneath it. And what is it doing? We all think it's reducing the stimulus out here and It is not at

0 (36m 3s):
In

2 (36m 3s):
The periphery. In the periphery. What's magical about that, I think, which is so cool, is you're actually changing the signals in your spinal cord way back here

0 (36m 12s):
In the neck. This

2 (36m 12s):
Is the cheapest free version of what we refer to as neuromodulation that's ever been discovered. You're actually, by doing that, you're changing things, the connections back in your spinal cord and it's reducing the nociceptive signals coming in here. That's why we do it. And it works, it works beautifully. That's why when a kid gets their booboo, you know, parents come and rub it, it works.

0 (36m 40s):
What about the kiss? The kids sometimes they want to kiss, you know, or a Romantic partner will sometimes like injure themselves. I guess it depends on the nature of the relationship. And they'll say like, can you kiss it? Of course, you know, and you kiss it and then like they feel better. Is that purely psychological?

2 (36m 54s):
Well, okay, I think a, an important point to, to ground here when it comes to the experience of pain is that everything, when we say psychological means neuroscience. Yeah, I know

0 (37m 6s):
You know that. Yeah, no, no. Forgive me. IIII have to be careful with, with the, the wording that I use, that's my fault.

2 (37m 12s):
But, but it's, it's accurate. Still. It is psychological, but It is neuroscience based. I mean, they're really becoming one and the same. But to answer your question, yes, by kissing it, you're activating touch fibers. We can also agree that there's a positive emotional salience that's associated with that. And that positive emotional salience is reducing pain too. What interesting wall in sza sometime later, there was an introduction of a device to take advantage of this called the TENS device and TENS is an acronym, transcutaneous electrical neurostimulation. And what the TENS device is doing, and there's many versions of it now, but there are those black electrodes you put over the area and they're hooked up to wires and when you turn it on, it causes a buzzing sensation.

2 (38m 4s):
And that buzzing sensation is activating those touch fibers, the A beta fibers. And so it's causing that neuromodulation back in the spinal cord.

0 (38m 15s):
Amazing.

2 (38m 16s):
It's cool stuff.

0 (38m 17s):
It's very cool. And I, and I love that you emphasize that when we're rubbing the periphery or shaking our hand or the periphery again being the body surface away from the Brain, that the real mechanism of, of action is taking place back in the spinal cord. Because it really speaks to the, the body wide and the, the circuit wide, the nervous system wide nature of this thing that we call pain, right? It's, it's happening out, quote unquote out here in the periphery, but it's being modulated in the neck level of the spinal cord approximately. And then it's, you know, being interpreted at the level of the Brain what explains different pain thresholds?

0 (39m 0s):
I could imagine it could be any or all of the locations that we've been discussing. Yeah, and it could be the context as well, right? If you're, you know, I've heard before, and I don't know if this is true, that if you have a lot of a adrenaline epinephrine in your system, that your Threshold for pain goes way, way up. There's probably a chemical basis for that. And maybe it's all, you know, anecdote, but certainly people have different thresholds for pain. I, for instance, do not have a high Pain Threshold, but I've noticed I have a very quick pain response. So if I stub my toe, it feels like the most painful thing I could possibly experience. But then it's gone very quickly. So it's like a quick inflection and then down other people I know we've never done the experiment.

0 (39m 45s):
I think I see them stub their toe and they're like, ah, and then, you know, 10 minutes later they're still feeling the ache. Yeah. So whose Pain Threshold is higher? That's a, it depends on how you define Pain Threshold. So how do we define Pain Threshold? What determines Pain Threshold and I guess the $6 million question, are there different pain thresholds between men and women as it relates to the whole story about childbirth being very painful and that women quote unquote have higher pain thresholds? Thank, thank God for women. I I just sent you about 10 questions, so yeah, forgive me. Yeah. So what is Pain? Threshold?

2 (40m 21s):
Yeah, no, it, it, it it's a, it's a great place to start and maybe, I don't know if you want circle back around at some point to the heat and cold to finish up the mechanical, but yeah, forgive me, I'll, no, no, no, you're, let me answer your, get to your Pain Threshold. So the Pain Threshold is that stimulus intensity that results in the onset of the experience of pain, the first onset of the experience of pain. So, you know, when you turn up the heat, it's, it's not when it's warm, it's not when it's just hot. It's when the heat becomes the perception of pain. Like when it becomes painfully hot at that point in time, the same works for cold.

2 (41m 6s):
You mentioned some of the distinction between your experiences of pain to a stimulus and your buddies, and that's normal. That first onset of pain, again, those are those fast fibers, those a delta fibers boom, right to your brain. Those are the protective ones that when we put our hand on a hot stove, we immediately jerk it back. We don't even have a conscious perception yet that we did that. And then it's a moment later when the C fibers are getting up to the Brain and the other, a delta fibers are converging into conscious areas of brain that we're like, oh wow, that stove is really hot. And the c fibers in particular are converging on more emotional regions in the Brain that are conveying an unpleasantness to that experience.

2 (41m 52s):
You don't like it, you and you don't want it to happen again, which is why it encodes memories. So you only had to do that once as a child. Now getting into the, the pain thresholds, you asked one of the other questions is, do men and women have different pain thresholds? The answer, the short answer is yes, this has been established, and I wanna be careful here with saying a couple things. One is, in general, men have higher pain thresholds to things like heat stimulus than women. And what, what people have to also though understand as scientists, we make a big deal outta small differences, right.

2 (42m 39s):
You know, what we do is we take a group of people, in this case, men and women, and we apply the same thermal stimulus to them, and we draw averages. The average man has this stimulus, the average woman has this stimulus, and we say, well, women have a little bit more sensitivity to that heat stimulus. And so we then go into the press and we say, men are tougher than women. That's a terrible statement, right?

0 (43m 7s):
Because the tough part is a subjective label, right? I mean, it it it gets to a whole bunch of different issues around the adaptive role of pain, right? I mean, I mean, could, one could argue that if your Threshold for pain is lower, that your, it serves a more adaptive function, right? It's fewer injuries, et cetera. I mean, I guess it gets into the implications of what we mean by quote unquote tougher.

2 (43m 31s):
It does, but it also misses, I think the big point, which is people are not averages. So what I mean by that is, while the average for a woman may be somewhat less than a man, if you look at the distribution of the curves, they highly overlap. Meaning the individual variability within men and within women is much greater than the difference between men and women. There's plenty of women on that curve that have much greater heat thresholds than men do. But when you pull things, you end up with that difference.

2 (44m 12s):
Unfortunately, when things are picked up and you want a quick soundbite out of it, that's what it gets distilled down to. So it's not

0 (44m 19s):
Unlike height for that matter. I mean, there are a lot of women that are taller than men. That's

2 (44m 23s):
Exactly it.

0 (44m 24s):
But on average, men are taller than women

2 (44m 27s):
On average. And I would say within this area of Pain Threshold differences, it's even closer. It's even tighter. You know, it would be, I'm making this up the equivalent, I think the average height of a woman is 5 3 5 4, the average height of a man, 5, 9, 5 10. This is imagining the average height being, you know, five, six for a woman in five eight for a man. You know, it's not a huge difference. There's a lot of things that play into changes in pain thresholds. How much, and this is where the Brain comes in, because you know much of the nociception, much of the signals that we're transducing we're transmitting, you know, in many of us it's very much the same.

2 (45m 16s):
It's when it gets to the Brain, now it's shaped and it's shaped by things such as your beliefs about that stimulus, your expectations around it, how much anxiety you're having at the moment.

0 (45m 31s):
Does increased anxiety increase one's perceived pain? Yes.

2 (45m 35s):
Okay. Yeah, it does. Your early life experiences with this, so have you had traumatic experiences in the past that alters brain circuits?

0 (45m 46s):
Can I interject a question? Yeah. If one was told, just suck it up a lot. Or if one whimpered or cursed when they hurt themselves, if they were told, you know, don't be a wuss, don't be a wimp. Do we know whether or not that increases or decreases the subjective feeling of pain later? I could imagine it going either way. Yeah, I could imagine the kid that was told don't be a wuss when they cried as a consequence of expressing pain or an experience of pain secretly feeling more pain because they aren't able to express the emotionality around the pain. But that if we just look from the outside, we'd say, wow, they're like pretty tough adult.

0 (46m 27s):
Right? Because they're not crying out in pain. Yeah. So do we have any, are there any experiments that have explored that?

2 (46m 34s):
I don't know. You're getting into, this is a good point, getting into pediatric pain and, you know, if there's been experiments in that space. I stay mainly in the adult area and my experience with raising a child as an n of one with one son,

0 (46m 49s):
He's done great. Thank you. I happen to know him very well. He's a, he's, he's what you call a, a great example of highly successful reproduction. So,

2 (46m 59s):
You know, say what do they say? It's better to be lucky than good. So

0 (47m 4s):
I'm sure, I'm sure there was a lot involved. So don't, don't discount, don't, don't discard any credit.

2 (47m 9s):
Thank you. Thank you. You know, my approach with Ian was not to say just, you know, necessarily suck it up, but I would, you know, make light of it. I'd, I'd have fun with it and I would kind of laugh and I'm like, way to go buddy. And I would find he would often laugh, you know? So I think a lot of It is the cues they're taking off the parents, you know, and again, this is, this is just my one of end parent is if they see you freaking out, the kid's gonna freak out too. But does there get to be a point where you're ignoring your child or your loved ones or painful issue? Yeah. Now you're getting into some maladaptive, some bad space where I think it's sending that person the wrong message and they may very well have problems later on.

0 (47m 59s):
I will tell just a very brief anecdote. When I was growing up, I observed a total of zero children and friends who, you know, cried out in pain or complained of pain who were told, you know, that was an inappropriate response. Sometimes I might have heard parents say, you know, come on, just suck it up or like, or rub it, you'll be okay. That kind of thing. But once and only once we had some friends, I won't tell you what, what country they were from, but they, they lived not far from where both Ian and I grew up since we grew up near one another. And I'll never forget that the younger brother of a friend of mine ran over to the father. He had cut his thumb on the bandsaw and it wasn't particularly deep, but he was crying in pain and the father wrapped it, picked up his chin and smacked him across the face and said, don't ever do that again.

0 (48m 52s):
And so what I think he was doing was compounding the, the lesson about the saw Yeah. But clearly had no regard for the pain that the, that the injury probably caused. No, I haven't followed up with that kid. Yeah. I think we can all agree that by today's standards that would be considered abusive parenting. Yeah. Or perhaps, you know, one could say that was, you know, on the far extreme of a response, but I'll never forget that. And I went home and I, I told my mom Yeah. And she said, oh yeah, when I was growing up, that was actually a more frequent response to kids hurting them themselves, especially boys. Yeah. And so things have really changed in terms of how we react to children in pain. But the reason I find this interesting is that ultimately what we're talking about is how should we interpret our own pain?

2 (49m 38s):
Yeah. Can I, can I make a commentary about that scenario? And I wanna bring in another neuroscience concept that, that dad may have been doing inadvertently, and that's something called conditioned Pain. Modulation. So there's another cool phenomenon and in pain that pain Inhibits Pain. So what I mean by that is when you were, you know, this guy, this kid, but or yourself growing up, did you ever walk up to your buddy and say, you know, my, my arm really hurts, you know, I injured it the other day, and what did, what did your buddy do? They'd stomp on your foot and you'd say, why the heck did you do that?

0 (50m 19s):
You and I must have grown up with the same friends. Oh yeah,

2 (50m 22s):
Yeah. And, and they'd say, well, now doesn't, doesn't your arm feel better? And I'd be like, well, yeah, it does. And yeah, I did grow up with those friends. I tell this story to some people and I sometimes just get the wide eyes like they did

0 (50m 33s):
What? Yeah, we are not making recommendations here. No,

2 (50m 35s):
We're not making recommendations. But it's a real phenomenon. It was described by Lebers, late seventies 78 or something like that in rodent models initially. And what happens is that when you engage a nociceptive stimulus or a painful stimulus in a site distal different from where the primary pain is, it engages a brain stem circuit that has descending pathways to the spinal cord and Inhibits pain. Amazing Pain, Inhibits Pain. It works. It also is thought to have some contributions from higher brain centers. We call this whole phenomenon. The bar is called this phenomenon Diffuse noxious Inhibitory control or denic.

2 (51m 15s):
The human version of this is called conditioned Pain. Modulation. Why I bring this up, not only to help explain that father's actions, somehow I don't think that he was thinking, oh, my kid's got a pain flying, you know, hand or finger. He cut himself, I'm gonna go slap him off the side of the head. He'll feel better. I don't think that's what was going through his head. No.

0 (51m 37s):
He wanted to make him feel worse. So he didn't go near the band saw without being more cautious.

2 (51m 41s):
But it probably did reduce the pain a little bit to some extent. Now where it's key is, oh my, and maybe we'll get into it later with Chronic. Pain is in some Chronic painful conditions, the CPM or the dead neck doesn't work like fibromyalgia being one. So Pain, Inhibits Pain is another neuroscience concept related to pain. That's rather cool.

0 (52m 9s):
Well,

2 (52m 10s):
And I'm sorry I missed your question today. Could you

0 (52m 12s):
Repeat No, what you were asking? No, you an you answered the question in and expanded on it in a, in a completely surprising and far more interesting way than I ever anticipated. So thank you. I, I'm betting that 98% of people listening to this, including myself, have never heard that Pain, Inhibits, Pain. Incredible. Let's go back to heat and cold. We briefly touched on heat, but let's talk about the use of quote unquote therapeutic heat or therapeutic cold, A cold pack. Yeah. For a, you know, a a, you know, a bruise that really aches or maybe even a break or a sprain or heat. You know, the, in the world of sport, physio cold is now heavily debated.

0 (52m 52s):
Localized cold is heavily debated. You know, you get people saying things, I don't know if this is true, that, you know, it creates a sludging of the, of the fluids trying to head in and out of the injury. So cold is not as good as heat. Heat allows for the inclusion and removal of waste products. And they, you know, there are all sorts of, just so stories that people make up, some of which might be true, I don't know, but what do we know about heat and cold as physiological stimuli in terms of their ability to ameliorate to help pain? Because of course if you get things hot enough or you get them cold enough, you can create pain with heat or cold. But let's assume we're not getting to that level of heat or cold and one is in pain.

0 (53m 36s):
You know, when I was a kid, we had a hot water bottle that four times when we were sick with something. But sometimes, you know, if, if I felt an ache on the side, I'd put some hot water in the hot water bottle, lie on that thing, watch some cartoons, I definitely felt better. Sure,

2 (53m 49s):
Sure. Well, putting aside the contemporary controversies over the mechanisms you described, which are I think very real and need to be sorted out, traditionally, historically we tend to think of applying cold for the first 48 hours or so after an acute injury and then heat thereafter cold has some really cool effects. Cold reduces Inflammation, so it reduces some of the release of those inflammatory chemicals we talked about prostaglandins, cytokines, histamines, other chemokines, all these fancy terms for substances that sensitize the primary nociceptor and it reduces the release of those and it reduces Inflammation.

2 (54m 33s):
Another cool thing, often not appreciated is nerves don't fire as fast when they're cold. And so if you've got nociceptors that are firing and you put cold, it's slowing the number of signals coming up. And by definition it's reducing the, the, the ultimately the pain you're experiencing. Now heat, heat has an obvious effect of increasing blood flow. It's going to help relax muscles and get blood into those muscles. And that's probably why you were putting that hot water bottle on and it just darn feels good. And so what, what do I tell people?

2 (55m 14s):
You know, in part I tell people, use whichever works best for them. I find there's huge individual variability in whether people like heat or like cold and within reason they're safe. What do I mean within reason? Don't go putting an ice pack on an extremity for two hours, you know, you'll get a frostbite. So, you know, take care with that.

0 (55m 43s):
How cold should one make the point of their body that's in pain, assuming of course that they're not gonna give themselves frostbite. Meaning do you want to numb the area? You'll get past that point where it's a little bit painful and then the, you know, basically you're shutting down some Neural pathways and you don't feel anything there. It's numb and then you let the blood flow return when you remove the cold pack. Is that,

2 (56m 5s):
I mean, that's a reasonable suggestion. Okay. Yeah.

0 (56m 7s):
Alright, well people, I I think will appreciate that the, the specifics of that because, you know, and of course listeners of this podcast often are interested in whole body, deliberate cold immersion, you know, cold showers, ice baths, et cetera. Most people experience those as as somewhat painful as they get into them. Yeah. And then can experience some numbness when they get out. Is it possible to raise one's Pain Threshold through the regular exposure to pain in ways that are safe, such as deliberate cold exposure, assuming that one doesn't stay in too long and it's not too cold and or through, you know, we were talking about sports earlier, but just in general, like, can we raise our Pain Threshold so that life is less painful?

2 (56m 49s):
The short answer to your last question is yes. The answer to your other question about extreme cold and cold exposure, which I know you have a lot of expertise and you can teach me a lot. I'm gonna stay in my wheelhouse at, 'cause I, I'm not up on the literature in that space, even in its intersection with pain. It's an intriguing concept. I have to imagine that it makes sense. You would get some habituation with that repeated exposure. I think one of the, the questions that would come up with, for instance, the cold exposure, and I don't know the answer to this, but it's, I'm sure maybe somebody out there does is, is there cross modality changes in pain thresholds?

2 (57m 34s):
I mean, if you expose yourself a lot to cold, does it change your heat Threshold? I don't, I would surprise be surprised if it did.

0 (57m 41s):
Yeah, I would be too.

2 (57m 42s):
Or your pressure. Yeah,

0 (57m 43s):
Because those are separate parallel pathways.

2 (57m 45s):
Yeah, yeah. You know, there, and you know, as an aside, I hate the cold, but I do really well with the heat, you know, and so does Ian. You know, I think there's something genetic there. So, you know, I mentioned earlier around men and women and heat thresholds, and I chose that specifically. But each of these are different depending on the stimulus modality. Can you change ultimately your thresholds? Yeah. Where that involves is a lot of Cognitive control. It's a lot of Cognitive training around that space. And you know, there's, there's clearly approaches to that.

2 (58m 27s):
People have learned that there's different manipulations around that. So one experiment, this wasn't intended, at least I don't believe so, they were measuring heat thresholds on college students. And, and we, we experiment a lot on students as, as we all know, we pay them well. And what they found is that when they're studying guys, studying dudes, when there was an attractive woman who was delivering the stimulus, the thresholds were higher because the guys did not wanna look like a wuss in front of this attractive young woman.

2 (59m 8s):
And that's been pretty well established. So the experimenter, their gender plays a big role in that.

0 (59m 17s):
Has the reverse experiment also been done?

2 (59m 19s):
I don't, I don't know. I don't know. Interesting. Interesting. But getting back to your point, yes, I think through a number of, you know, Cognitive manipulations, you can ultimately over time change those thresholds. Another one area is exercise, movement. Exercise, you know, clearly changes those thresholds over time. You are probably building up some increased inhibitory tone through that process.

Inside Tracker (59m 53s):
I'd like to take a quick break and thank our Sponsor Inside. Tracker. Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. Now, I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long term health can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. Now a major problem with a lot of blood tests out there, however, is that you get information back about metabolic factors, lipids and hormones and so forth, but you don't know what to do with that information. With Inside Tracker, they make it very easy 'cause they have a personalized platform that allows you to see the levels of all those things. Metabolic factors, lipids, hormones, et cetera. But it gives you specific directives that you can follow that relate to Nutrition behavioral modifications, Supplements, et cetera, that can help you bring those numbers into the ranges that are optimal for you. If you'd like to try Inside Tracker, you can go to InsideTracker dot com slash Huberman to get 20% off any of inside tracker's plans. Again, that's Inside Tracker dot com slash Huberman.

0 (1h 0m 55s):
One thing I'm fascinated by in the whole Mindfulness space Yeah. Is this idea of whether or not under conditions of stress or in this case pain, whether or not the most adaptive mindset, assuming it's not a tissue damaging level of pain, would be to think about something else, distract oneself from the pain, or conversely, whether or not one should quote unquote go into the pain. So for people who have Chronic Pain, maybe it's in a, a small area of the body that experiences Chronic Pain pain, quite often AK Chronic Pain or maybe it's whole body pain. I, I don't think it really matters for the question I'm asking and people are trying to develop some Cognitive ways.

0 (1h 1m 41s):
So what we call as neuroscientists, you and I top down mechanisms for things like, okay, I'm gonna distract myself from the pain, I'm gonna focus on other things I really enjoy. Or rather I'm going to really go into the pain, meet the pain and realize, I don't know somehow that it's not as bad. Like somehow there's a, and again, this becomes very opaque, right? We don't really know what we're talking about when we, when we do these sorts of protocols, but when those sorts of things are out there in the Mindfulness space, and I think I certainly take Mindfulness seriously as as an intervention, but what always bothers me about those sorts of interventions is that they lack the specificity and the granularity and there's no kind of mechanistic logic to explain them.

0 (1h 2m 22s):
Yeah. So what, what are your thoughts on, on meeting the pain versus distracting oneself from the pain?

2 (1h 2m 28s):
Let's break that down 'cause there's two concepts there as you alluded to. And they're both effective and they both work differently. So one is attentional distraction where you are distracting yourself from the thing that is causing pain. Clearly works in a lot of people and that's why one of the strategies that we recommend for patients, for people living with pain is to engage in distracting activities. Read a book, go for a walk, spend time with friends and family in particular in the community and work to get your mind off of pain.

2 (1h 3m 10s):
What we've learned is that attentional distraction engages specific brain networks. They tend to be some of the outer layer of brain networks in your prefrontal cortex, some in your cingulate cortex in other regions which are clearly involved with distraction. It's not necessarily that distraction is gonna completely eliminate one's pain, but it can reduce it significantly. And this is why the biggest problem with distraction from a time of the day is at night. It's when people are trying to sleep. 'cause during the daytime you can read that book, you can spend time with friends and family, but people with Chronic Pain that have it 24 7, you can't distract yourself at night when you're trying to get into a relaxed state and fall asleep.

2 (1h 4m 1s):
And that's why sleep is such a big issue for people with Chronic Pain. So attentional distraction, it, it works. Distraction works. Now what you said, I mean the second piece you said kind of let's meet the pain if you will, and there's different approaches to meeting the pain. One approach that you invoked with Mindfulness is a addressing the pain from a non-judgmental, accepting manner. I'm aware the pain is there, I am not gonna judge it. I'm not going to put a value on, it's bad, it's good or anything. I'm just gonna note its presence.

2 (1h 4m 44s):
And that has been shown to work as well. In fact, actually when John Cabot Zen originally developed, Mindfulness Based, Stress Reduction, people with low back pain, plenty of studies have shown that it works. I've completed just some recent studies in MBSR as well and we're diving deeply into the data. So it's this non-judgmental acceptance, if you will, of the pain. Sorry,

0 (1h 5m 9s):
MBSR is the acronym

2 (1h 5m 10s):
For Mindfulness Based. Stress. Reduction, MBSR. Everybody should do MBSR. Lemme be clear, I have no financial relationship with any of this by the way. But Mindfulness Based, Stress Reduction has been shown effective for anxiety, for depression, for pain, just about everything. I think they should put it into all the schools. It's, it's a great skill to learn. No side effects, takes a little bit of time to learn it and it can be in some people effective and helpful for pain. And that's the key that we're gonna keep coming back to is some of these things work for some of the people some of the time.

2 (1h 5m 52s):
There's a third aspect of meeting the pain and that is more of a direct Cognitive reframing about the meaning of the pain. Now you're coming at the pain and you have an approach, you're making effort on what you're thinking of the pain. Is that pain damaging, threatening harmful or do you view it as, yeah, it hurts but it's not harming me. That is a critical, critical aspect of Pain Management and that is serves as a foundation for something called Cognitive Behavioral Therapy.

2 (1h 6m 42s):
The the cool thing about a number of these is that there's actually different Neural circuits engaged with these different approaches. And I think the key that we have to figure out, and this is where research is going, is which approach works for which person under which circumstance.

0 (1h 7m 5s):
So interesting. It's something you said about understanding the pain but not overinterpreting or Catastrophizing. The pain seems important. Knowing the difference between being hurt or feeling hurt versus being injured has been something that's been important to me. I've been involved in sports where clearly pain was involved. It's like I'm hurt, but am I injured? That's the first question, you know, like I've rolled an ankle like you know, it's like I'm limping, this hurts. Am I injured? Meaning am I gonna be back at it in an hour tomorrow versus I've broken bones and it's, you know, you know, great empathy for anybody that does. Like when you're injured you feel a snap and you know you're out for a while in some cases.

0 (1h 7m 48s):
So I think knowing the difference between being hurt and being injured is something that's kinda that key moment. And for me it's always been experience as a moment of anxiety after feeling pain. Especially in a sports area like uhoh. Like am I, am I gonna have to take two weeks off or is this just pain? So I think for people to be able to recognize when pain is reporting an injury versus when pain is just reporting a temporary sensation is really important. And perhaps also for psychological hurt versus psychological injury. I mean that gets to some larger context themes these days of somebody says something, it upsets us, are we hurt or are we injured? Right. You know, I think it gets very murky.

0 (1h 8m 28s):
It does. So how does one determine if they are hurt versus injured? And then maybe we could even stretch into the psychological realm. Neither of us are psychologists, but it sounds like so much of what you do represents the the bridge from the body into the mind. And so yeah, you'd be remiss if we didn't talk about Emotional Pain as well.

2 (1h 8m 47s):
Yeah. So what you just said, you're spot your spot on Andrew and that one of the key messages, the key, you know, mackey's tips for Pain Management is to understand the distinction between hurt versus harm.

0 (1h 9m 4s):
I like that better. Yeah.

2 (1h 9m 5s):
Versus harm Critical. Absolutely critical. Let me allow me to illustrate with patient, I saw won't name names some time ago, guy's in his forties, a master's level tennis player, tennis is his life. He's works as some executive somewhere, but he lives for tennis. Comes hobbling in on crutches, sits down and he's got pain in his foot. And he was told not to put pressure on his foot because he is got this injury and it's gonna be worse. And this has been going on now for months and he's now depressed 'cause he can't play tennis. Tennis is his life, this guy's life is tennis.

2 (1h 9m 47s):
So I examined this guy and it turns out what he has is something called a Morton's neuroma. And a Morton's neuroma is a fibrous thickening of tissue around the nerves that go to your toes and it gets to be like this bundled tissue nerves. And it's really painful. It's very painful, but it's not causing harm. There's no harm there. It's really painful. So I explained this to the guy and he looks at me with like this light bulb goes off and he's like, you mean I can play tennis? And I'm like, yeah guy, you can go play all the tennis you want, it's just gonna hurt.

2 (1h 10m 28s):
He got up, he left the crutches in the exam office and he walked away. Now that's an extreme example. I don't want people please to think that that kind of thing occurs all the time. It doesn't. Chronic Pain conditions are often incredibly complicated and need much more than, you know, a 45 minute or 60 minute education session. And you know, back to the tennis court, he still had pain in his foot by the way, but he could play. But that gives that example of addressing that fear and the anxiety around that, that issue. And I think that's what we first have to learn is, does that pain that we're experiencing represent something that is harming us, that something that we either need to seek a medical attention now or sometime soon.

2 (1h 11m 22s):
And whether does continued activity worsen the tissue injury or not? In my world, where I'm carrying mostly for people with Chronic Pain, we've moved beyond the tissue healing by definition by one of the definitions for Chronic Pain is that the pain persists beyond the time of tissue healing. So in many of our sessions, our times we're educating people hurt versus harm, it's back pain. We, we evaluate the spine, we make sure is the spine stable?

2 (1h 12m 3s):
Is there anything sinister causing damage? In most of the cases it's not. And we help people understand that distinction critical. Critical for people. And yet at the same time you don't want to just ignore something that is a real medical issue that's getting worse and needs medical attention. And that's where the complexity of all this comes in. Did I answer your question? Yeah,

0 (1h 12m 32s):
Beautifully. I think this distinction between hurt versus Harmed is so important for people to hear. Perhaps you're willing to expand a little bit in terms of the psychological hurt versus Harmed. I mean I'm not asking you to comment on societal or generational shifts, but you know, we'd be avoiding the obvious if we didn't say that in the last really 10 to 15 years, there's been a pretty dramatic shift in terms of how society at large interprets Emotional Pain, right? People hearing things or seeing things and the idea that Emotional Pain could be related to physical pain or at least similar enough to it that people's Emotional Pain is valid, right?

0 (1h 13m 13s):
And and if anything, I'm here to validate the fact that Emotional Pain is valid like any other pain except It is different because it becomes very hard to point to a specific kind of Threshold. We're using that word a lot today, but I think it's appropriate here, Threshold between hurt and Harmed. Whereas if I tell you that my left foot hurts, which it did a lot in high school and then you took an X-ray of my foot in high school, you'd say your foot's broken. 'cause it was broken a lot in high school. And that's Harmed. I mean, to continue to do what I was doing to break it in the first place, I was harm clearly going to harm myself worse. So I had to, had to heal up. But when it comes to Psychological, Pain, you know, psychiatry has all these thresholds for normal functioning versus abnormal functioning.

0 (1h 13m 58s):
Are you sleeping well, normal relationship and on and on. We don't want to go there because that's not our place. But how do you, when you see patients, how do you take into account the level or the thresholds for their Emotional Pain because that's part of your job. So I'm asking you this from the perspective of a, yeah, somebody who treats pain. How do you gauge somebody's Psychological Pain? Is it by how intensely they vocalize their pain or does it always go back to how well or poorly their life is being managed at the level of sleep, nutrition, relationships and so forth?

2 (1h 14m 32s):
Yeah. Great, great set of questions. There's a lot in there. Let me first start off with something very simple. I don't try to distinguish between this notion of Psychological Pain physical pain. It's pain end of end of, I think once I get into, or you get into this trying to distinguish is this Psychological Pain or psychogenic pain, which was a terrible term or physical pain, you end up putting value judgments on people. And I don't think it serves us well when we're caring for the person in front of us. If they're in pain, I'm addressing the pain.

2 (1h 15m 15s):
The thing to note is, at least in people that come into our Stanford, Pain, Management center and other pain centers is that remember pain is a sensory and emotional experience. It's all wrapped up. And so we want to treat the whole person. Sometimes we get, we get easy, we get easy ones and we just go do a nerve block and pain goes away. And that's simple. But usually it's much more complex where we're seeing the interaction of an expression of pain that includes a significant amount of anxiety of depression.

2 (1h 15m 56s):
You mentioned this term Catastrophizing, which we can break down if you'd like. And that's probably one of the biggest predictors. Factors in, in amplification of pain and worsening pain and poor treatment responses. Catastrophizing, I try to treat the whole person and not really parcel out all this I do at Stanford, IUII built a digital health system that captures, measures a lot of data around a patient's experience across physical, psychological, and social functioning. And we use that data to target Therapies to understand how much their depressive symptoms are.

2 (1h 16m 41s):
Anxiety, Anger, Anger, big issue in pain. Huge in pain. Does it

0 (1h 16m 47s):
Make it worse or better?

2 (1h 16m 48s):
Invariably it makes it worse. Yeah. And you know, you can break Anger down in a couple different categories. John Burns and others has broken it into like Anger in versus Anger out. I don't know if that term's familiar with you. Anger out, that's my father. Loud, loud, angry, boisterous, banging, you know, would quickly turn anything into an angry tirade. Anger out expressive

0 (1h 17m 16s):
Yelling at the at the news. Yes. Yelling at somebody who cuts you off in traffic,

2 (1h 17m 20s):
Usually yelling at the man because he hated his job. Anger in boiling, simmering, you know, self-contained seething that's Anger in data seems to support Anger in is is worse, it's bad.

0 (1h 17m 38s):
So it's not necessarily whether or not it's directed at someone external. In both cases, Anger in and Anger out can be directed at someone external. It's a question of whether or not it's expressed outwardly or contained inside.

2 (1h 17m 50s):
Beautifully stated. Beautifully stated. So we ca you know, Anger depression, anxiety, we capture fatigue sleep. And so what we try to do is again, look at the whole person because they're not just a back if that's where they're having pain or not just a neck or a shoulder in your case it's impacting the whole person. And we just got done talking earlier about how all of these circuits interact with each other. And so sometimes we can't just eliminate the nociception in the periphery. Sometimes we can reduce it, but what we have to do is target everything and we have to try to target all these circuits up here.

2 (1h 18m 33s):
And in many cases what we're doing is through education, through pain Psychology, through physical therapy and rehabilitative approaches on top of it. And yes, the medications we have now, you know we touched base on a few earlier, but we have over 200 medications available for pain. Very few of them FDA approved, we tend to steal from all the other fields.

0 (1h 18m 56s):
So you're talking about more than 200 medications that can be Yes. Prescribed for pain, but as off-label treatments

2 (1h 19m 4s):
Perfectly stated. Yeah. There's only a few medications that are actually FDA approved specifically for pain. So what we, what we do is we borrow or steal from the psychiatrists some of their, their antidepressants, which will frequently work very effectively for pain and work on those pain related circuits in the Brain. We take from the neurologist some of the anti-seizure medications because those medications while reducing separately seizures for people who don't have seizures, they work on ion channels, they work on other neuromodulators that also are involved in pain circuitry.

2 (1h 19m 47s):
We can take from the cardiologists medications that work on the heart, anti arrhythmia or heart rhythm drugs. They are potent sodium channel blockers. And the sodium channels, as you know, are responsible for the action potential that generates the nerve impulse signal. And so they're like an oral local anesthetic that you take. And so we, we we take from everybody in our field and the medications. Getting back to, to what you said, so just summarizing one I I don't really distinguish psychological versus physical pain. In my world I, I find it better just to treat it as pain and look at the person holistically and go after all the components at once.

2 (1h 20m 36s):
I find that's where we get the best results. And It is typically bringing a lot of tools to bear.

0 (1h 20m 44s):
Speaking of tools to bear, what role, if any, does nutrition play in local or whole body pain?

2 (1h 20m 53s):
Critical and I think we're learning more and more and more about the role of good nutrition, of healthy eating, anti-inflammatory Diets avoidance of foods that are triggers and an incredibly underappreciated area. You know, I've had my experiences with Chronic Pain, I developed an Abdominal, Chronic Pain problem shortly after I turned 50.

2 (1h 21m 33s):
I was throwing a happy hour for our pain. Psychologists of all people went to a Mexican restaurant. I won't name which one got food poisoning, that's why I'm not naming it good Mexican food, bad food poisoning. And ever since that event, I can't eat anything in the Onion family.

0 (1h 21m 51s):
What I'm familiar with onions, but what else is in the Onion family? I'm sure you've researched this now pretty thoroughly considering what you're describing.

2 (1h 21m 58s):
Classic in the, what we refer to as FODMAPs, you know, it's one of the FODMAPs and I have now some issues with the others and manifested by just severe, severe upper Abdominal Pain and not many other symptoms. But you know, it put me on this journey where severe Abdominal Pain didn't know why couldn't sleep, couldn't sleep, went like I'd go months without having a restful night's sleep. I thought I was getting early Alzheimer's 'cause I felt like I was getting stupid. And what actually benefited me was of all things the pandemic, why, 'cause what did we all do? We isolated and we started eating the same foods and I started noticing I was feeling better when I was eating certain foods.

2 (1h 22m 47s):
My Abdominal Pain went away and I'd start doing as a scientist experiments and I finally was able to isolate and determine what the problem was. So now I have complete avoidance on that. I'm, I'm a little difficult to go out to a restaurant and have dinner, but you

0 (1h 23m 5s):
Know, so no onions.

2 (1h 23m 6s):
No onions and what else? Shallot chives, scallions, leeks. Anything in the onion family, you know, not allium. I'm fine with garlic and you know, by healthy eating, by identifying something by triggers changed my life and returned to a degree of normalcy. I think the key for people is, you know, if you have any kind of similar issues, identify those triggers sometimes isolation of, you know, foods or restrictions and using a journal. And then as you learn from that, slowly build foods back into your diet.

0 (1h 23m 47s):
I think it's so important for people to hear this and thanks for sharing your personal story around this because I think that Nutrition, while every physician seems to appreciate that the quality of nutrition matters, defining what quality of nutrition is is really difficult. There's still, you know, avid even we could call them rancorous debates about this, you know, vegan versus omnivore versus this and you know, but it sounds like this is a case where it can become very individualized. But I could imagine somebody going to their physician and that physician not being you and saying, yeah, you know, I notice that when I eat certain foods I'm in a lot of pain. And the physician's simply saying, well don't eat those foods. But unless that person is a trained scientist, like not knowing how to go about doing the sorts of experiments that you did would be difficult.

2 (1h 24m 34s):
Impossible. Yeah. I'm sorry, I know I interrupt you. I just wanna please build on that if I, if I can, one of the key things, I simplified my story, but the key thing is, is if I, if I eat onions or anything in onion family, it's pain for two weeks. Wow. It is, so the thing is, is if you get repeated exposures, it never stops and it gets very, very hard to figure out what it was. So it's not like you eat something, you get pain, it goes away where you know, we can all do that pattern recognition here. You have to be able to think back what happened two weeks ago that may have influenced it. So it's not easy.

0 (1h 25m 13s):
Well this may be a case for Elimination Diets, which are provide, they're done safely, where people restrict the number of foods they eat to a very limited number of foods. Make sure they still get enough calories and macronutrients. Yeah that, that they need protein, fats and carbohydrates or whatever, what have you. But that by limiting the total number of foods that they eat to like eight or 10 basic things, then you can build things in and then explore what triggers the pain or what removes the pain. I don't really see any other way. I am intrigued by the onion example even though it's a, it's a, it's your case in particular. And we don't wanna extrapolate too broadly. Is there something about onions that's triggering or particular neurochemical or Immune pathway?

0 (1h 25m 53s):
Do we have any knowledge of like why onions would create that kind of gut pain?

2 (1h 25m 57s):
This has been a journey I've been on now for a few years to answer this. One of our GI pain docs that we have come the clinic, Linda Newin sent me a paper from, I dunno, cell nature that showed that after a gut infection it can change the genetic expression related to sensitizing you to food antigens. I know I threw out a lot of jargon there. Basically the short answer is you get an infection and your gut no longer responds properly to a normal food item. And so one explanation may be I got this infection, I was at a Mexican restaurant, a lot of onions and I got sensitized through that infection.

2 (1h 26m 41s):
Now subsequently to onions, you know, I saw a Stanford allergist, Hannah Watford, who's awesome by the way. And after I had this I think figured out and I went in and I'm like, well you know Dr. Watford, is there anything I can do for this? And she laughed and she's like, no, you're doing everything. It's all just avoidance. And I thinking I was rather unique and special about this thing. I said, you know, do you ever see this? And she said, oh yeah, I see this all the time every day. I see this all the time. And I said like, this isn't unusual. She's like, no, I see this thing all the time. And I said, this

0 (1h 27m 20s):
Thing meaning sensitivity to onions,

2 (1h 27m 22s):
Sensitivity to certain no to certain, to different, these different food groups and this, this thing that occurs later in life. Something, an event that happens to somebody that triggers. And I said, well gosh, that sounds like a public health problem. And she's like, that's what we're debating right now in the allergy community is whether this is representing more of a public health issue and is 'cause I'm seeing I Dr. Watford, I'm seeing increasing amounts of this as we go forward.

0 (1h 27m 51s):
How interesting. Well this is not a time to plug the philanthropic arm of our premium podcast, but I'm very involved in science, philanthropy. This sounds like an area to devote some funding to, to explore how foods are impacting the local and systemic pain response. Yeah,

2 (1h 28m 8s):
I, I got in, you know, so I'm running a large biomarker study to characterize people deeply and one of the things that I wanted to put in there is microbiome characterization. Now to be clear, that's outta my wheelhouse. But the beauty of being at Stanford and other major institutions is you can go make friends.

0 (1h 28m 24s):
Yeah, Justin Sonenberg, who's been a guest on this podcast is one of the world experts on the gut microbiome. We have a few others too. So

2 (1h 28m 30s):
There you go.

0 (1h 28m 30s):
So he's a friendly guy. I am sure he'll collaborate.

2 (1h 28m 33s):
We go, we go make friends and people who understand the microbiome, we collect the samples and that's where team science is magical. And once again, the idea, looking at the whole person,

0 (1h 28m 45s):
As long as we're talking about the gut, let's talk about pain inside the body because we talked about nociceptors on the surface of the body and the pain that most people immediately think of when you have a discussion about pain is, you know, pain on the surface or a broken bone or maybe hip pain or knee pain or back pain. But what about pain that resides deeper in the viscera? You know, gut pain, irritable bowel syndrome, these things are, I'm learning are far more common. Yeah. Than that I knew, I'm fortunate that if I have a stomach ache or a headache, it means something's wrong. I rarely get those, I've sometimes been called it you don't have a stomach of steel, not because it's hard from the outside, but because I can eat pretty much anything, although I eat pretty cleanly.

0 (1h 29m 32s):
A lot of people write to me and ask questions on Social, Media about irritable bowel syndrome and other forms of gut pain and Visceral Pain like pain that they feel is really deep within their system. Typically how is that sort of pain dealt with at a clinical level?

2 (1h 29m 48s):
Absolutely, Visceral Pain is a different thing than what we've been describing a lot of, which is somatic pain. By the way, I'll say as an aside, I used to have a gut of steel also. I could chomp down anything anytime, anywhere. And so, you know, there was a lot of grief and loss associated with not being able to eat certain foods. And that's also something people have to come to grips with. But getting back to Visceral Pain, so the thing about somatic pain, so that's another term now somatic meaning the soma, the the, the extremity that you were alluding to is the nociceptors there very precisely localized where the stimulus, the painful stimulus is coming from.

2 (1h 30m 38s):
When you hit your thumb with a hammer, you know exactly where that pain occurred. With the Visceral Pain, what you have are very diffuse what we refer to as receptive fields. Think about you the last time you had a stomach ache, it's not that you put your thumb right here, what you said is it kind of hurts like this.

0 (1h 31m 1s):
Your whole stomach.

2 (1h 31m 1s):
Whole stomach. It's because those receptive fields are very large, they're broad, they're not as well localized. And in part the reason for that type of broad receptive field is you're not trying to get away from localized danger. So when people get stomachaches, it's often a very broad area. When you get pelvic pain, it's the same type of thing. Now there's some fascinating stuff that occurs with Visceral Pain because those fibers that extend from the viscera, meaning the, the lungs, the abdomen, the pelvis, they all head into the spinal cord too.

2 (1h 31m 45s):
And it just so happens that they make kind of indirect, indirect connections with the same level that represents the body. So let's think about pelvic pain for instance. You frequently will find people that said that have pelvic pain that will describe having lower back pain too. And it's because of this Visceral somatic convergence in the spinal cord. It's not that there's something going on in their back, it's at these signals that are being driven heavily from the pelvis are coming in and connecting with the same regions from the back.

2 (1h 32m 27s):
And the convergence of that is now being perceived as pain in both. And we're we, we are seeing that more and more in the research, this Visceral somatic convergence, people have pain in their pelvis and then also over their abdomen. Classic one that we're aware of, we see this in the tv, the movies and unfortunately real life are heart attacks. So the Visceral fibers that subserve the heart, typically the first through the fourth thoracic region, well those converge in the spinal cord in similar regions that subserve sensation under the arm and up here, that's why people will often say they've got pain with a heart attack radiating down into their arm.

0 (1h 33m 14s):
The left arm, typically the

2 (1h 33m 15s):
Left arm, the heart is on the left side. Exactly. After people get Abdominal surgery, sometimes some blood can leak out and it'll slip underneath the diaphragm. The diaphragm is subserve by some of those neck regions, three, four, and five of the cervical, which happens to also cover your shoulder. And so you'll get people after Abdominal surgery they said, man, my shoulder's really hurting me, doc. And what we do is we first check to see, you know, could something have happened during Ns, you know, during placement, just make sure there's nothing wrong. But frequently it's due to irritation.

2 (1h 33m 57s):
That's again one of the magical mysteries That's so fascinating about pain.

0 (1h 34m 3s):
This seems like a good point to bring up Referenced Pain or is what you're describing an example of Referenced pain? So my understanding of reference pain is that, you know, like for instance, I, I've got a slight bulge head, I think like my lumbar three four disc or something. I had a whole body scan recently, just a, an exploration scan. 'cause I had the opportunity, not, not anything serious, fortunately. And there's a, a slightly bulged disc there. And every once in a while, if I do certain movements in the gym, I'll get pain down in my right hip and sometimes going down my leg.

0 (1h 34m 44s):
And I used to think it was sciatica 'cause you assume anything on the right back backside, okay, it must be wallet induced SIO sciatica, back pocket wallet induced sciatica. But what I eventually realized is that, well, it's this dis bulge, it just so happens that the nerves that emit from that, that region, they branch out to a bunch of different areas. And so you think the pain is in your leg, but the, the issue is someplace else or, and occasionally Indeed I feel the pain elsewhere in my body as well. It's sort of like a, like a matching of regions for pain that seem unrelated. Is that a way to think about reference pain?

2 (1h 35m 21s):
Perfectly. The, the, the examples also I referred to of a heart attack causing referred pain or also the pelvic region associated with back pain as a way of referred pain. What you're describing is the fact that pain doesn't have to start with an injury or a stimulus in the periphery. You could damage the nerves anywhere along the way and that will be perceived as pain. We refer to that as Neuropathic Pain. So that's another distinction you brought up nicely. Good. Good segue into there's thought to be several different types or categories of pain.

2 (1h 36m 5s):
We have been talking through much of this time about somatic pain, you know, injury out here. We talked about Visceral Pain and when you have damage to a peripheral nerve damage injury to a peripheral nerve or the central nervous system, we refer to that as Neuropathic Pain. It frequently has different qualities, different characteristics. People will refer to it as shooting, stabbing shock-like burning. It can frequently when there's a damage to a nerve or damage to certain regions of the Brain be incredibly challenging to treat. By the way, the good news is with that light disc bulge is the vast majority of time the discs reabsorb.

0 (1h 36m 47s):
Yeah, I have to be careful to not do too much spinal flexion, like sit ups and stuff. I thought that that would help, but that actually doesn't strengthen the back. It was actually a asymmetry between the Abdominal muscles and the lower back muscles. So it was provided I do a lot of back extension type yeah. Training. Then that bulge more or less stays in. I just have to be a little, little cautious, not too cautious. Fortunately, as long as we're talking about Referenced, Pain, somatic Visceral and all the rest. What about associative or Referenced Pain where it's psychological, and I don't want to get too abstract here, but more and more these days I hear from people who say, you know, I was in this job and the job sucked or I was in this relationship and the relationship sucked and I had terrible back pain.

0 (1h 37m 40s):
Like really acute, localized back pain or Chronic headaches or migraines. Yeah. And then they go on vacation or they change their circumstances and lo and behold the pain goes away. Does that surprise you as an expert in pain?

2 (1h 37m 56s):
Not at all. Not at all. What you're, you know, simpl simplistically referring to is, you know, there's people are undergoing stress and we have, we clearly know that the Brain is not a passive recipient of information coming in from the body. It's a two-way street. the Brain is causing downstream consequences in the body. the Brain controls our sympathetic nervous system and parasympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic being the fight and flight response. It controls the tone of cortisol that's being released.

2 (1h 38m 37s):
And we all know that in acute situations, rapid increases of cortisol and noradrenaline is keeps us away from the lions and tigers and the bears. Oh my. But in a Chronic situation, and Robert Polsky, as you know at Stanford, has built a career around Chronic stress, at least in part and very bad for us. And so these Chronic stressors impact the end organ, the tissue, and it's real pain. It doesn't mean that we need to go get back surgery. It means that probably we need to identify the stressors that are contributing to that and address those.

2 (1h 39m 19s):
And we'll often find that in the scenarios you outline that the pain gets better. Some of those targets are interesting, there's a lot of memory associated with pain. This is where early life events occur. And those early life events and injuries can sensitize us to future vulnerability. So I was in a car act, bad car accident when I was 16, fortunate to walk away from it got bad whiplash. If I get stressed, a lot of my pain manifests in my neck. For me as a pain doc, it's a signal to me that's like, go work out.

2 (1h 40m 5s):
Go for a walk in the forest, you know, and take some time away from the computer. Again, that's a simplistic message and my experience doesn't translate into everybody else, but I'm just validating everything that you, you said

0 (1h 40m 24s):
Let's consider the opposite scenario, which is positive emotions. You've done some very nice studies exploring how being in positive relationships, being in love in fact can change our perception. That is our experience of pain and probably does so at real physiological levels, as you mentioned earlier, psychological is physiological and vice versa. It's hard to separate the two. But could you share with us what you did in that study and what you found? Because I find it really interesting and it also points to the incredible power of love in how we experience life.

2 (1h 41m 5s):
Yeah, yeah. I think there's several cool things about that study that I'd love to share. One is how it all came about. So, you know, US neuroscience geeks often go to the Society for Neuroscience as an annual meeting. And I was hanging out in a, sharing a room with Art Aaron who studies passionate love and he and his wife study passionate love. And we were having a glass or two of wine and masking art if you ever, you know, have you ever studied pain? He's like, no, I studied love. And he's like, have you ever studied love? No, I studied pain. Has anybody ever studied the intersection? Another glass of wine? No, let's do it. So we came back to Stanford and there was a young postdoc, Jared Younger, who's now a professor at the University of Alabama.

2 (1h 41m 49s):
And I said, Jared, we're either gonna fall flat on our face or we're gonna, this is gonna be a cool study. And Jared took this on great job. So what we did is we advertised on campus for couples in an early phase of a Romantic relationship because there's a reason for choosing that in an early phase of a Romantic relationship, you are deeply focused on your beloved, they're on your mind all the time. You feel great when you're with them. You feel terrible when you're not with them. Doesn't that just sound like an Addiction?

0 (1h 42m 28s):
I mean it's that yearning. I don't know. That's, it's a, can be a pleasant experience that,

2 (1h 42m 33s):
But addictions, you know, for the people who are using the substance can find it, you know, in that early phase. Very pleasant. But it, it turns out that the early phase of a Romantic relationship engages the same Neural circuitries as Addiction. Interesting. Same reward circuitry, all that. So we chose that. And so we said, come to us and bring pictures of your beloved and bring pictures of an equally attractive acquaintance, clothed, this isn't sex that we're studying clothed and we caused them pain in the scanner. And, and, and we paid them afterwards. We needed a control condition for this because thinking about your beloved is very attentionally demanding.

2 (1h 43m 20s):
Remember we talked about attentional distraction earlier? So we gave people what's called a word generation task. Very simply. Can you think about every sport that doesn't involve a ball?

0 (1h 43m 35s):
Okay,

2 (1h 43m 36s):
Frisbee. Hockey, boxing. Boxing. Okay, that's attentionally demanding. Think about it. Every vegetable that's not green and you know, so you're running that through your head and we're causing you pain. It's an attentional distraction task. So we flash people pictures of their beloved cause pain flash, people of their acquaintance cause pain and then distraction. Okay, what did we find? Love works great. Love works great. It was a wonderful analgesic. It significantly reduced people's pain. And it turned out the more in love you were, the more pain relief you got

0 (1h 44m 17s):
When viewing the photo of the person you love.

2 (1h 44m 20s):
Yes. When viewing the photo of the person you love. Now, how did we know how much in love they were? It turns out the psychologists have got scales for everything. And one of them is a passionate love scale, which asks how, what percentage of the day are you preoccupied thinking about your beloved?

0 (1h 44m 35s):
Oh goodness. You just sent people now off to give their partners the passionate love scale. That's to figure out how much time they're spending thinking about them. Yeah,

2 (1h 44m 43s):
We, we had Stanford students, some of them thinking about their beloved 80% of the day. I wanted to use this as a screening tool for our resident applicants because I I, I want them focusing on patients not their beloved. And that is, by the way, a joke, that bad joke, but

0 (1h 44m 59s):
It's, but probably is real world. We're not just talking about Stanford, I mean Oh no, but when somebody's writing you a script or a prescription that is or giving you advice, yeah. You might want to know if they are in a, a new Romantic relationship. Yeah. So

2 (1h 45m 12s):
The, the, the other, I thought the other cool thing about this study was attention worked also, but attention and love worked on different circuits. So attentional distraction, they worked equally well. Attention again, worked on some of these prefrontal regions, these outer cortical areas. Love worked on more of what we classically think of as these reward-based circuits. The nucleus accumbens, the amygdala, one of the, the descending brainstem regions called the substantial nigra, which is coming down from the Brain through that area to the spinal cord to inhibit pain.

0 (1h 45m 54s):
So classic Addiction pathways

2 (1h 45m 56s):
Classic. And so the key, again, message for people is different. What we would think of as psychological approaches, engaging different brain circuits to reduce pain. I'll leave you with one last side note that we didn't publish on. And that is Jared went back a year later and we assessed the student's strength of their relationship, assuming it was still ongoing. And he found that there was a rather high correlation between the love induced analgesia and brain activity and the caudate nucleus and in the insular with the strength of the relationship a year later it was.

2 (1h 46m 43s):
So we had a brain scan that was a predictor, a future strength of a relationship. Could

0 (1h 46m 48s):
You tell us the direction of, of those results? So if a new Romantic partnership is creating high levels of activity in these two brain areas you just mentioned, then It is a very good predictor that the relationship will Yes. Survive over time.

2 (1h 47m 4s):
Well, in this limited sample, it meant that it, it was gonna be very strong a year later. Understand, and you know, Andrew, we always have to put these caveats Sure. Unpublished, non-PE reviewed. It was a fun post hoc data analysis that I'm not sure if anybody's ever, you know, run with those kind of things.

0 (1h 47m 24s):
No. But we can explore it in a, in a playful way now. Yeah. And people can do with it what they will. It does sort of speak to something important though, assuming that result would hold up if the same experiment were done in, you know, maybe many hundreds or thousands of people. It sort of speaks to the idea that the activation of these Addiction like circuits in the early phase of a passionate love relationship set in motion, a certain number of things that create stability in that relationship, which on the face of it makes sense. But we've also all heard it the opposite way of well as well, which is, you know, fools rush in or that things that start fast and fast or things like that.

0 (1h 48m 6s):
But here you're talking about the early phase of passion, serving this interesting role in terms of analgesia, alleviating pain, but also predicting some stability of the relationship over time. It's kind of interesting, it's

2 (1h 48m 19s):
Fascinating to talk about, you know, I, I feel like I have to put that caveating that, not generalized, but a fun thing to talk about. And it's where I think cool scientific ideas can come from for future exploration that I think that's also what's pretty neat. I find the, you know, again, the different circuits for different approaches to reducing pain. Fascinating. Again, that gets to the question you asked me earlier. Is there one circuit? And the answer is no. What we have to do is figure out what is the best circuit for a particular person or set of circuits.

0 (1h 48m 57s):
If you're willing, I'd like to talk about opioids first. If you could educate us on Endogenous Opioids, the opioids that we make inside of our body that we don't, that meaning nobody takes as a drug. And then how that informs opioids that people take. I mean clearly the so-called Opioid Crisis is a concern. Many people addicted to Opioids people have died from taking too many Opioids, but presumably some people have benefited from these Opioid drugs as well. So I would like to talk about that. And then I'd like to also talk about some of the things that are adjacent to the prescription opioids.

0 (1h 49m 37s):
Things like Kratom, which right now are being sort of called into question as to whether or not they will continue to be legally available over the counter. So first and foremost, what are the Endogenous opioids? How do they work? And that I think will set the stage for the rest.

2 (1h 49m 53s):
Yeah. So we all have these Endogenous and keans and endorphins that act as pain killers. They are Analgesics, they are natural substances in all of us that get expressed. There is a certain Endogenous tone to these that some have done research on here. Again, Jared did research on this and Steven Brule and others on showing that higher and Endogenous opioid levels may, you know, lead to less emotional reactivity. for instance, thank God we, you know, we have Endogenous opioids or you know, we just couldn't handle it.

2 (1h 50m 37s):
What chemists have figured out is how to, you know, bring in Exogenous Opioids and Morphine was the prototypical one from the, from the poppy. And since then, medicinal chemists have built on variations of Morphine and created other compounds. Some again, variations on Morphine. Some are purely synthetic like the oxycodone. Could

0 (1h 51m 1s):
I ask a question because I'm fascinated by the history of these things. How did or when and or when did somebody look at the poppy and then say, oh, I'm gonna start eating poppies or isolating things from poppies and realize that that Morphine

2 (1h 51m 17s):
Thousands of years ago. Okay,

0 (1h 51m 18s):
So poppies have been used for a very long time,

2 (1h 51m 20s):
Long, long time. These things have been around. So this is, this is old school work that's only been refined in more contemporary history. And the whole topic of opioids is such an incredibly controversial area. And I, I feel like I have to, you know, you have to understand the speaker, my, in this case me, my, you know, one's position on this. My usual mantra is I am not pro opioid. I am not anti opioid, I am pro patient. So I have seen opioids positively transform people's lives, help them get back to work, spend time with friends and family, relieve suffering, particularly in situations end of life, but also in people with Chronic Pain and I have seen opioids destroy lives at a personal level.

2 (1h 52m 17s):
I come from a family background deep, deep in Addiction. I have lost close loved family members to Addiction and I'm respectful of that. What I've learned is to not get into this binary mode of thinking. It's either this or it's this, but to treat opioids as a clinician, as a tool to be used in certain circumstances. In some people, not typically as a frontline or first line agent, typically much later down, if they have failed other Therapies, you cannot approach the challenge of opioids without appreciating the deep complexity that we're faced with, particularly now in society with all of the, the litigation ongoing and all the, the money involved.

2 (1h 53m 14s):
It's, it's a highly nuanced topic. So what, what, what more would you like to talk about opioids?

0 (1h 53m 21s):
Well, I think that most people hear about the Opioid Crisis and just assume that they are quote unquote overprescribed that people are given opioid drugs as a frontline treatment, perhaps more than they should. That the addictive component, which I understand is very real. That the potential for Addiction is very real. Yeah, yeah. As well as the potential for Cross interactions with other things like alcohol and perhaps even other illicit drugs. You know, street drugs perhaps like if people can't fill their prescriptions and tolerance to the opioids, creating issues where people then need more of them.

0 (1h 54m 4s):
They're doing, I have a not close family member, but a, a, you know, distant family member who had his entire life in arranged beautifully. He was a practicing lawyer with a beautiful wife and family, had a back injury, was prescribed Oxycontin. It, it helped him initially, but then it, it set off some behavioral psychological pathways that had him seeking more forging prescriptions. Yeah. When, you know, he understood the law. He was a lawyer, he eventually went to jail, got out the same thing happened again, he eventually ended up dead. Right. So, and I think there are many examples of that that we hear about and those are very salient and very disturbing, very saddening.

0 (1h 54m 46s):
So I think that most people, including myself, hear the Opioid Crisis and assume that what we really should be doing is seeking a better alternative. But what I'm hearing from you is that there are use cases where opioids make a great deal of sense and that they've really helped improve people's lives. And that none of what I just described or anything like It is experienced by those people. In fact quite the opposite. Do I have that right?

2 (1h 55m 9s):
Perfectly. And and that's again where we, we, we need to treat these at an individual level on a case by case basis. And that one size doesn't fit all. Yes. Opioids were overprescribed. I think everybody agrees to that in this country. And we went through a period of time with massive over-prescribing and there's a lot of nuance and reasons why in large part Physicians, we get terrible education around pain and we don't know how to treat it. In general. Coming outta medical school, we get about seven hours of education on pain.

2 (1h 55m 54s):
Veterinarians get 40, it's great if you're taking, I think your dog's name is Costello. Yeah.

0 (1h 55m 58s):
Unfortunately he passed, but he took some pain meds for a short while, but I found an alternative treatment that worked far better. Perfect. Which turned out to be, by the way, low dose testosterone. He was castrated like he was fixed, he was younger. And I, it's interesting, I've, I've gone, I've, I've said publicly on very large scale podcasts that I gave my dog low dose testosterone later in life and ameliorated a lot of his shakes and pains, at least from what I understood. Sure. 'cause he started moving better and feeling better and sleeping better. And I expected the veterinary community come after me with pitchforks, not one. Wow. Did that. And yet I heard from hundreds of veterinarians that said, yes, we wish that we could prescribe those sorts of things to people who castrate their male dogs later in life to ameliorate their symptoms.

0 (1h 56m 40s):
So that opened up to me a whole world of understanding about some of the restrictions that vet that vets face. Yeah. In terms of what they prescribe. There's a whole discussion to be had about that. We'll do a series on animal and pet health, vet health. Great. Well the vets hopefully are healthy too. You get the point. Yeah. But when it comes to the Opioid Crisis in this discussion, you know, I think it's become so laden with the idea that like doctors are on the take. Like they're getting paid to give opioids to patients and that's why they're doing that. And I, and I don't believe that necessarily be the case, but I think that's what the public perception is, that it's all financial.

2 (1h 57m 15s):
Here's the, here's the thing, were there bad docs doing bad things? Yes. I'm gonna invoke a good friend of mine, Keith Humphreys at

0 (1h 57m 25s):
Stanford. Oh yeah. Terrific,

2 (1h 57m 27s):
Terrific psychologist who's an Addiction medicine psychologist and public policy person. And the way he breaks it down, and I have subscribed to this is, you know, the, the, there's three types of Physicians, remember there's about a million Physicians in this country, about a million. You've got Physicians doing the right thing for the right reasons, vast majority of docs. We need to leave them alone, we need to support them, we need to help them do their job and not put more obstructions in their way. There is a much smaller group of docs doing the wrong thing for the right reasons.

2 (1h 58m 10s):
What I mean by that is these are docs who did over-prescribe opioids in this case, in this context. They did buy into the marketing messages that were put forward. They did not have much education around alternatives in Treating pain. And they thought by handing out pills, just pills in their very brief visits with patients, remember primary care docs as my heart goes out to them, you know, what do they get 14 minutes or so with a patient? They gave them something that they thought would help. They were doing the the wrong thing for the right reasons, but they

0 (1h 58m 51s):
Believed that they were helping. They didn't have, they believe they weren't get catching financial incentives or, yes. Okay, got it. That's

2 (1h 58m 56s):
Right. Those people, we need to educate them. We need to train them on proper Pain, Management, opioid, Prescribing de-prescribing. And then you've got the tiny little group at the top of this, if you will, pyramid. These are docs doing the wrong thing for the wrong reasons. These are bad docs, these are your pill mills. These are people breaking the law. They need to go to jail. End of the thing is, is is that that little group at the top in the million or so Physicians we have in this country, it represents such a small representation but it got blown out by the media and everybody else, particularly those docs doing the right thing for the right reasons got caught up in it and engendered a huge amount of fear.

2 (1h 59m 46s):
Huge amount of fear on the physician side. And then what happened is the docs just started abandoning patients. They cut their patients off. I had a young housewife, two young kids doc cut her off from a little bit of Vicodin that she was taken intermittently for some back pain that had been well managed on this. She was doing all the right things. Cut her off, she turned to black tar heroin. You know California, great state of California tried an experiment where they monitor death certificates in our state for, and the docs Prescribing opioids for that.

2 (2h 0m 30s):
And they went after the docs thinking that if they targeted the docs doing that it would lead to a reduce a Reduction in opioid deaths. It led to a doubling I know counterintuitive because what happened is the docs abandoned the patients and so we have to be aware of the negative consequences of this. Now the current, I'm not trying to minimize the Opioid Crisis 'cause it's real, but we also now need to put some context, the Opioid Crisis is being driven by the illicit fentanyls. It is more, if you just look at the CDC data, it's very clear that the fentanyls coming in via Mexico, China and others is what driving most of the deaths.

2 (2h 1m 16s):
Keith, getting back to Keith, led a beautiful Lancet Stanford commission on the North American Opioid, Crisis and put together a very rational plan. I just finished serving as a senior advisor to the Medical Board of California where we revised our Prescribing guidelines here. They were very draconian before hard limits made people fearful, both patients and docs. And we've shifted it back over to put the control back in the hands of the physician patient relationship. We're hoping it'll make a difference. You can see I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm going on a bit here. There's, there's just huge complexity in this space.

2 (2h 1m 59s):
I understand you're gonna do an episode, you know, some, some time on it in the future, and I hope the audience has more opportunity to listen to this. Other questions I can answer for you though on that.

0 (2h 2m 10s):
I really appreciate the thoroughness of your answer. I think that you set a picture in a context that I certainly didn't understand or appreciate, and it sounds like one, certainly not the only, but one of the major issues is the creation and the propagation of a black market by doctors cutting off patients, presumably out of fear. Those patients then seeking not any but illicit or black market routes to Treating their pain, which you can understand why they would do that. I mean, I'm not justifying anyone doing anything illegal, but somebody's in pain and they had something that worked and now they don't and they're gonna go looking for things that are similar to that thing.

0 (2h 2m 56s):
And you're telling us that Fentanyl in street drugs basically is what's killing people. Presumably, I doubt it's Fentanyl prescribed by Physicians or perhaps It

2 (2h 3m 8s):
Is, it's not, no. There used to be a bit of confusion around that because Fentanyl is a prescribed medication in a patch form and in a troche, the troche used for end of life cancer pain. But unfortunately some of the coating used by the CDC, in other words, got that confused with the illicit. And so it took a while to get a better handle on it. But I think, you know, we do now, yes, most of It is being driven by the fentanyls and we're just seeing this incredible epidemic wave of it. It can be made so cheaply, brought across the borders reasonably easily. Something we definitely need to do to address. We want to be careful about not conflating that crisis with the issue of pain, which is an epidemic in its own right.

2 (2h 3m 56s):
And for the segment of people who are using opioids responsibly and effectively for their pain. And that's where again, that nuance comes in. Are there patients who are also on opioids that have been weaned down? You can wean them down gently, compassionately, and they do better. The answer is yes. My partner Beth, is just finishing up a study on that and you know, showing that with compassionate care a number of these patients can be weaned down, who voluntarily want to come down and sometimes they find their pain actually improves.

2 (2h 4m 41s):
And part of that improvement may be that opioids have degrees of side effects and by Elimination of those side effects and the the other aspects they're seeing improvement.

0 (2h 4m 52s):
Could you list off some of the more commonly used opioids?

2 (2h 4m 58s):
You know, Morphine and it's commercial delivers commercial derivatives, MS Contin, which is a long lasting version of Morphine oxycodone, which by itself is a short-acting medication. But when you encapsulate it in a long-acting version, it becomes Oxycontin, which was the trade name that Purdue put forward. Fentanyl we mentioned, comes in a patch form. There are mixed agents like Tramadol, which is a kind of a weak opioid, but also has what's called serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibition.

2 (2h 5m 38s):
We've got Dilaudid, which is a version of trading for hydromorphone. So there's a slew, there's, I don't know, more than 20 different Opioids within that list of 200 medications that we have. Methadone is another one people usually think of. Methadone is a medication used to treat Addiction. People go to Methadone clinics. It's a long lasting opioid in the right person. In certain circumstances it can be used effectively for Chronic. Pain, by and large, they all have the same or similar mechanisms of actions working on Opioid receptors.

2 (2h 6m 22s):
This is getting back to your original question to me about where these things work. There are opioid receptors in the periphery. There are rich sources of opioid receptors in the spinal cord and the dorsal the back part of the spinal cord. And then there are many areas in the Brain that are rich in Opioid receptors. It's, you know, it's all a naturally occurring area. And when we put in an opioid by mouth, we are binding to those receptors and activating those Neural circuits. In many cases. When I say activating, they have an inhibitory role.

2 (2h 7m 5s):
I mean that's one of the major parts.

0 (2h 7m 8s):
Is there any role for benzodiazepines in pain relief?

2 (2h 7m 13s):
Rarely. If to, I, I, many of my colleagues would say, you know, Sean, it's just a hard no, I Andrew i'd, I'd have to come up with an edge condition of somebody who has a generalized anxiety disorder. unt poorly treated with anti anxiolytics, with Chronic Pain and the, when you find you treat their anxiety with like a benzo, it helps with their pain as well. The, but these are edge conditions. Got it. By and large, no. Got it.

0 (2h 7m 45s):
And what about Kratom? I had a, a odd experience with Kratom and I've never taken it. The experience was the following. I started learning about it, hearing about it from listeners on the podcast. Yeah. Realized by doing a little bit of a web search that it's available over the counter and that certain people like to take it often like every day at low doses or even higher doses. And that there was huge variation in terms of the amount of Kratom in the various products and how much people were taking, some people talking about Kratom as something, it was as if it were innocuous. And we can ask whether or not Indeed, It is innocuous. And so I put out a, a tweet, I guess now that Twitter is called x, I guess I put out an X anyway, it doesn't matter.

0 (2h 8m 30s):
And I, and I said that my first pass view of the literature on Kratom, the scientific literature is that, you know, it had a lot of properties similar to opioids, although different as well. And that it seemed kind of odd and maybe even problematic that it was so widely available. And I got bombarded with, I don't wanna call them Kratom enthusiasts because what I soon discovered was that these people were angry with me for placing even a partial shadow on Kratom. But what was interesting to me was that they were saying that in their case, and I'm assuming they were telling the truth, that Kratom had helped them get off prescription opioids and that they heavily rely on Kratom in various, do levels of dosage in ways that they felt really helped them.

0 (2h 9m 19s):
And so two things happen. One, I've been put in the cross errors of the pro Kratom community. Not, not to an severe extent, but perhaps the more important thing is. And I want to thank that community in part for, you know, now it's inspired me to do a deep dive search on Kratom. I'm going to be interviewing one of the laboratories that's done a lot of the research on Kratom later in 2024. But also it, it's made me realize like there are these compounds that are available over the counter that many people feel so passionately about because they really feel like it's helped them. I'm not saying it has, I'm not saying it hasn't. But then again, I've never taken it. What is Kratom at? Or perhaps what receptors does it tickle?

0 (2h 10m 1s):
And what are your thoughts about Kratom and people using Kratom? And maybe I'm pronouncing it wrong, I've also heard Kratom cre, I'm calling it Kratom.

2 (2h 10m 10s):
Yeah. Kratom is this natural substance that does have, as you said, opiate doic properties as well as others that is not fully understood. It's been available well naturally for many, many years brought in to the United States. And I've heard the same stories and I just want you to be prepared that anything I say about Kratom, there's gonna be some angry people after this. And It is what It is. I have heard the same stories that you have heard about people taking Kratom and saying it's helping them to stay off of prescription opioids or illicit opioids. And I get that. I think in some way it's binding Opioid receptors and reducing the natural craving for these other substances.

2 (2h 10m 56s):
And it makes perfect sense. Methadone does that. Buprenorphine, which I didn't mention before, but is a, is an interesting opioid that binds to these receptors and it reduces craving. Where I have challenges is in just because something is natural doesn't mean that It is safe. We are seeing an increased number of overdose deaths associated with Kratom. Is it polysubstance? Yeah. In some cases It is, but I think there's a lot we don't know, so,

0 (2h 11m 38s):
So polysubstance people taking Kratom, but also alcohol.

2 (2h 11m 41s):
Yeah, benzos. Getting back to the benzos, personally, I think we need to put a lot of research into this agent and if it merits it, I think it should be a, a prescribed substance. I think part of the challenge that we have is that we don't understand the quality, the purity of the dose that people are taking of this thing. You know, similar type of story with Cannabis by the way. So I'm hoping that we're gonna get the research that we need to really understand what it's doing and whether It is safe and effective.

2 (2h 12m 22s):
I'm left with a lot of unknowns right now.

0 (2h 12m 26s):
You mentioned Cannabis. Is Cannabis effective and by extension is CBD effective for managing pain?

2 (2h 12m 33s):
Yeah, there's another controversial one. You'll get a few comments about whatever I say,

0 (2h 12m 38s):
You know, in general, listeners of this podcast, yes. They tell us where they're upset. They'll also tell us where they agree. Our, our goal here is never to satisfy everybody, but just to, you know, some of this lands in the, in the realm of a highly educated opinion. Some of It is still, as you pointed out, speculation. 'cause we don't really know what Kratom sources people are taking or Cannabis, et cetera. Yeah. But I think you'll find, and my experience, it's been that people appreciate that we're having the conversation and we do read all the comments and those comments often, as I mentioned in my earlier anecdote about that tweet often direct us to explore things further and we can always have a, you know, a second discussion about this down the line.

0 (2h 13m 19s):
So we invite you, invite all your comments and criticism

2 (2h 13m 23s):
Cannabis, well here's what we know in carefully controlled laboratory situations, Cannabis has been shown to reduce Neuropathic. Pain. That's that nerve related pain from people who have either nerve injury, diabetic neuropathy, postherpetic neuralgia, terrible burning nerve pain condition. It has been shown to reduce that in small samples from larger scale epidemiology studies and even larger like clinic-based studies that I've done. We find it has not been particularly helpful on average compared to people not on Cannabis.

2 (2h 14m 8s):
There's a lot we don't know about the causality of that and the direction of it. But all to say that there are many, many questions that remain. I think the challenge that I personally have is that we're running huge population level experiments as we speak right now by, you know, providing unfettered use of Cannabis. And the bad news is, is that we're probably gonna see some real untoward consequences of it. And we already are. The good news is I'm hoping that at a state level we'll be able to use that data to really inform what's going on with Cannabis.

2 (2h 14m 52s):
I mean some of the challenges are what I refer to with Kum Cannabis is not, Cannabis is not Cannabis, you

0 (2h 14m 57s):
Know? Right. Edible smoke the T vape,

2 (2h 14m 59s):
The C to CBD ratio. The dose, yes. All of that. We don't know what you're getting. It remains a scheduled one drug by the DEAI in some of my leadership roles and others have called for scheduling of it as a schedule two. Why? Why not to purposely try to restrict use, but by making it a schedule two drug, you've now made it so much easier to research. I don't know if people understand how many barriers there are to scientists studying schedule one drugs.

0 (2h 15m 34s):
Could you explain schedule one versus schedule

2 (2h 15m 35s):
Two? Thank you. Yeah, so schedule the scheduling of drugs is a categorization that describes their abuse liability. And so you have drugs like PCP, heroin, Cannabis, which are schedule one, which are defined as having high Addiction potential and no utility

0 (2h 15m 57s):
At all. Which is just wild because when I think about PCP Phencyclidine, I certainly don't want people to run out and start taking PCP. But chemically and physiologically PCP is ever so similar to ketamine and you know, rarely is this discussed, but ketamine is now widely used as a therapeutic. Presumably ketamine isn't schedule two, maybe even schedule three.

2 (2h 16m 24s):
Yes. And so,

0 (2h 16m 24s):
So some of the, the, the stuff that's thrown into schedule one makes no sense.

2 (2h 16m 28s):
It's historical, it's all his, it it, it's decades and decades ago of history and clearly Cannabis should not be a schedule one hands down, no question. By scheduling it though, you will have the societal benefit of being able to make it more easy to study. And then you'll get the NIH and the FDA into this and we can start really getting answers to the questions, which I do. I think it works At the end of the day. Do I think there is some variation of Cannabis THC CBD ratios that will provide some benefit? Oh, absolutely. There's too many receptors in our brain that are involved with Modulation of pain.

2 (2h 17m 14s):
I just don't know what those are. A friend of mine, Mark Wallace, runs pain at uc. San Diego has come up with a really nice recipe cocktail of ratios of THC to CBD that he feels very strongly that he can help people using that as an active agent.

0 (2h 17m 34s):
Yeah, I know that in Colorado there's a strain of Cannabis where they, it's pure CBD, no THCI think they call it Charlotte's Web. And parents of children with intractable epilepsy will actually move to the state of Colorado in order to get it because it seems to be effective for the treatment of certain forms of pediatric epilepsy. That was shared with me with one of our colleagues, Nolan Williams, when he was a guest on the podcast. So these plant-based compounds have, have their place, whether or not it's Kratom perhaps, right, we're remaining open about that or Cannabis the T, the THC or the CBD or some combination. I think it's really interesting. I think as long as we're talking about plant compounds, how do you view the fields that are what I would call somewhat adjacent to traditional medicine.

0 (2h 18m 20s):
So things like acupuncture, Chiropractic, physical therapy and so forth

2 (2h 18m 26s):
As a pain physician within the field of pain medicine or Pain Management, I think about six broad categories of Therapies that we provide for people with Chronic Pain. One of these is the medications and there's a whole large group of categories of medications of 200 or so available to nerve blocks and procedures. These range everything from trigger point injections to nerve blocks with local anesthetic and steroid on up to minimally invasive procedures like spinal cord stimulators, implantation of drug delivery pumps, three psychological and Behavioral Therapies pain.

2 (2h 19m 8s):
Psychology, which has many forms now can be very effective. Four, physical and occupational therapy approaches to Chronic Pain five. This is what we, we typically call complimentary alternative medicine approaches. It's a little bit of an outdated term, but I think of that as acupuncture, nutraceuticals. These are the over the counter agents that have actually shown to have benefit in pain that you can get over the counter. And last but not least, six, what I call self-empowerment or increasing your agency. And here it's about education, it's about learning skills, it's about being here on the Huberman, you know, lab podcast, learning about pain.

2 (2h 19m 52s):
It's, it's that self-empowerment. And what we find is that those six categories all brought together typically have the best benefit for people living with Chronic Pain

0 (2h 20m 3s):
To a lot of people listening to the US right now think, oh yeah, acupuncture. I mean this is a, you know, thousands or tens of thousands of years old practice that clearly is grounded in a lot of clinical data and clearly works. And then other people will go, oh my goodness, they're talking about Acupuncture, like sticking needles in the body. Are they just like pain treats pain? Is that what It is about? But as you and I both know, unless it's being performed incorrectly, Acupuncture is not painful to receive. Does Acupuncture help treat certain forms of pain? Is there any scientific basis? Yes.

2 (2h 20m 38s):
Yes, there is. Do I understand what's going on with acupuncture? Having completed an actu, an NIH funded Acupuncture study?

0 (2h 20m 46s):
Yeah, I just saw that published.

2 (2h 20m 49s):
No, you know, I'm, I'm just being straight. We still don't know exactly how acupuncture is working. We do know that there's a nice study that showed activation of peripheral adenosine receptors that have a peripheral analgesic effect. We know that Acupuncture and as compared to sham acupuncture engages different brain regions. It's interesting that many of the ACU points overly peripheral nerves. And so by needling those nerves, are we causing a central change? We're turning down the amplifier, if you will, in the Brain maybe.

2 (2h 21m 29s):
Where does this fit into my clinical use? My usual statement is that if you can afford the wallet biopsy, give it a try.

0 (2h 21m 38s):
Although find a really good Acupuncturist, I've Oh yeah, yeah. I've had acupuncture done, I wouldn't say many times, but several times. And I will say this, one of the acupuncturists I went to put needles in my face and I ended up having to go to Stanford derm to get some of the angios that were the like blood vessel growth. That was the consequence of those needle insertions. And so I, to the point where I won't, if I go to acupuncture, I'm like, don't put anything, don't put any needles in my face. 'cause I'll take an angio in my leg or whatever. Sure. I don't care. And I, it's not vanity, but I, I didn't like the way that the needles were introducing angios to my face. Now that was probably because this Acupuncturist wasn't doing things correctly. I'm not saying all acupuncturists do that, but here's the problem.

0 (2h 22m 20s):
How do you know which acupuncturists are Reliable versus not? And for that matter, how do you know which physician is Reliable versus not? I mean, I work at an institution like Stanford where I can ask a lot of people and I still, my senior administrators won't like this, but when I get a recommendation from a doc at Stanford, I always call somebody at UCSF and crosscheck. Yeah. And I don't tell them that I'm cross checking. And I'll do the reverse as well. When I, when I was at uc, San Diego, I would check up with Stanford. So, but most people don't have access to that kind of community. I mean, I can pick up the phone and contact somebody in pretty much any medical specialty and at multiple institutions, but for most people they're waiting into the abyss of acupuncturists of Physicians.

0 (2h 23m 4s):
I mean, how do, are people supposed to navigate this?

2 (2h 23m 7s):
You found a perfect way to do it. And many of us do the same thing. And for those who don't have access to high quality experts, you can use variations of that. So you're right, with acupuncture, most of the ones I've been associated with we use in the clinic or outside are all have been high quality. The recommendation would be to try to get a referral or recommendation from somebody who refers to that Acupuncturist docs want to have relationships with people, with other clinicians that do a really good job. We don't want to be referring to somebody who's bad 'cause it reflects badly on us. So it's really doing what, in a way, what you are doing.

2 (2h 23m 50s):
So try to connect with your primary care doctor others, and get some recommendation for who is high quality with regard to clinicians pain Physicians for instance, that's tough. There's five to 10,000 of us that are subspecialty trained out there. If you're pain is really complicated, a complex pain problem, you're probably better off with a tertiary referral center that can provide comprehensive services where possible.

0 (2h 24m 25s):
So is there a, is there a centralized website where people can say, okay, I live in the state of Iowa, or I'm, you know, a lot of our listeners are overseas or you know, where people can find out the, like the, the ratings based on patient experience, although that can be complicated. I, I confess Sure. The one star out of five star ratings are, are a little bit more salient. There've been studies on this. People tend to, if you know you see a negative review, those tend to grab your attention even if they're fewer of them than the many thousands of positive Reviews. But I mean, patients should be able to get the information that they want about previous patients' experience. Right?

2 (2h 24m 59s):
Yeah. I gotta tell you the, the patient ratings, it's a highly manipulated situation. How so? Well, you can pay companies to help jack up your ratings. I see. That's, it's rather easy. I see it in the community all the time.

0 (2h 25m 17s):
So inflation of

2 (2h 25m 18s):
Ratings Oh my, yes. Inflation of ratings. And so then you inflate it and it overcomes any of the negative ones. We haven't taken an approach on this and maybe that's naive of us. You know, we see 25,000 patient visits a year and only a tiny percentage of them put some rating. And it's probably the extremes undoubtedly, but we don't manage it. I know that in many community settings that they do. I didn't answer your question. Is there a Reliable source of quality? I still think at the end it's gonna be relationships and word of mouth and referral. I do the same thing you do. I, you know, to see Hannah Watford, the allergist, I asked my primary care doc at Sanford, who's the best, who is the person that knows the most about food related issues?

0 (2h 26m 7s):
Well some really entrepreneurial guy or gal or group of guy or gals will put together a website or an app or something that really addresses this problem head on. Well that's part of, I can think of a very few things more useful than a truly independent way of understanding prior patient experience and finding the best person for a particular problem. And I think AI can help with this. Yeah. But I think AI and you know, human interface anyway, somebody out there should do it. I'm curious about Chiropractic. For a lot of people, again, chi not chiropractors, let's not talk about the people specifically, but Chiropractic, a lot of people put acupuncture and Chiropractic adjacent to one another.

0 (2h 26m 51s):
But my understanding is that insurance often will cover Acupuncture but not chiropractic work. Maybe I got that backwards or maybe I'm just all out wrong. But you know, with chiropractic work, you're talking about often the attempt to relieve compression of nerves. Certainly nerves are being manipulated if any part of the body is being manipulated, I guess manipulates kind of a word that implies something a sinister is happening. Yeah. It is being adjusted. What are your thoughts about chiropractors, assuming the chiropractor is well-trained and responsible, can it help pain, can it help back pain, neck pain, whole body pain? Yeah.

2 (2h 27m 30s):
First of all, Acupuncturist and chiropractic or two entirely different professions. Right. Just to, just to be clear for people. And they sometimes get lumped into a similar category of pain treatments. And that may be where, you know, that comes from just closing out on the Acupuncture. Again, just to summarize. Yes, in some patients, in some circumstances I found acupuncture to be useful and it's worth a try. CMS center for Medicare is now paying for acupuncture for people over the age of 65. Hmm. Medicare for Medicare patients. That's something recent and we were happy to see that. I believe that was for back pain.

2 (2h 28m 11s):
That should be fact checked. But chiropractic mixed data, well controlled studies, some have sh some have shown that it can be helpful for low back pain. Some have shown it isn't. It's, it's truly not clear. The type of chiropractic that involves, that doesn't involve kind of, you know, the, the fast high velocity manipulation. As a physician, I have some concerns about that, particularly around the neck. I've taken care of patients that have had vertebral artery dissections from that rapid wrenching, what

0 (2h 28m 53s):
Is a, a vertebral artery dissection.

2 (2h 28m 56s):
One of the, the, the main arteries that goes from the body to the Brain and the back portion of It is called the vertebral artery. And when you do these high velocity manipulations, there is a risk, albeit small of having a, a dissection or an embolus thrown off. And I've had, so it's like a stroke, it's like It is a, yeah, it's like a stroke. But there's a lot of approaches that can be done that and some patients have shown some, shown some benefit. I think the key with a number of these Therapies, and I don't wanna single out Accu acupuncture or practic.

2 (2h 29m 37s):
If you go to them, ask yourself, am I getting durable benefit? Meaning everybody feels good after a massage, right? But couple, few hours later it's kind of worn off. It's a nice experience in the moment for most people. If you're finding that for Acupuncture Chiropractic or anything for that matter, you know, ask yourself, is it really providing you durable benefit that is worth the effort or is it just rapid? It feels good in the moment.

2 (2h 30m 18s):
We tend to use that in our clinical practice as a Threshold, you know, and we like to see things that last for a longer period of time. And in many of these treatments, whether it be acupuncture, chiropractic, we use those as an inroad into more of a functional rehabilitative approach. Meaning when you get Chronic Pain, you tend to withdraw, you tend to stop ex exercising, you stop moving, your muscles atrophy, you become deconditioned because of the pain. And so we want to use these tools that we've been talking about as a way to get people engaged in activity to correct the underlying biomechanical issues that may be present.

2 (2h 31m 8s):
And so they all need to be appropriately staged and that's where working with a good clinician can help with that.

0 (2h 31m 14s):
Yeah, certainly in my case, anytime I've had back pain, even when it was very severe, provided I wasn't Harmed and I was just hurt, continuing to move and not becoming sedentary was absolutely the fastest route to recovery. And, and in particular, doing certain exercises that, that were particular to my my case. What, if any, is the role for physical therapists in the treatment of Chronic Pain?

2 (2h 31m 42s):
Absolutely crucial. Absolutely crucial. Despite being a physician, not a physical therapist, I have great appreciation and respect for what the physical rehabilitative approaches do. Because at the end of the day, we're trying to get people back to an improved quality of life and physical functioning. I mean that and is often what people are most looking for control over their pain control over their life. Yes, Reduction in pain, but more being able to do more things and there tying in with good physical therapist, occupational therapists, people who can do goal setting. Absolutely critical.

2 (2h 32m 22s):
All of the treatments that I provide typically are meant to help support an increase in physical rehabilitative approaches. And so when I do nerve blocks or procedures or give a medication and if we end up reducing some pain, we want to tie that in with more activity. And what the physical therapist are great, particularly those trained in Chronic Pain, is knowing that difference between hurt and harm. They can work with people to know what's safe for them to do to rehabilitate. They can teach them more about body mechanics and help improve endurance and strength.

2 (2h 33m 3s):
They can work around Pacing. Pacing is so critical for people with Chronic Pain. Now this isn't just exclusive to the physical therapist. The psychologists do Pacing, I do Pacing. What is Pacing? Here's the problem with Chronic. Pain, one of the many problems it waxes and wanes. And so what happens is you go out and have a good day, you go out like gangbusters and you go do everything that you haven't been able to do for the last week because you've been in pain. And then you pay the price. And when you pay the price, you're back in bed or you're on the couch and you're not moving.

2 (2h 33m 45s):
And what happens is you go into this rollercoaster of activity and no activity at all. And what happens is it entrains in our brain. It's a classic negative reinforcement model. This is classic Psychology. And so then people become fearful of more movement and as a consequence they get more and more disuse atrophy and then more disability. So the key, what do you do about that? The key is you set small goals, baby steps. If you can walk comfortably for a block right now, great walk that block tomorrow, maybe walk a block plus an extra 50 feet and maybe the next day another 50 feet.

2 (2h 34m 36s):
No more, no more. If you're having a great day, don't go do five blocks. You're training for a marathon, you're training for the long win. Now what's gonna happen along the way is that you're gonna have good days and you're gonna have bad days. On the good days, don't go out and exceed it. Set a Threshold, time it on your watch, set a distance on the bad days. Recognize we all have bad days, everybody has bad days and you know, you may need some rest during those bad days, but then the next day get up and restart. You know where you were.

2 (2h 35m 17s):
And that's the type of thing a physical therapist, good pain psychologist, good physician can help you with. And tying that in, by the way, with these other Therapies.

0 (2h 35m 28s):
Very interesting. I've never heard of Pacing, but it makes total sense and I can see how people could really hinder their own progress without that basic understanding, which thanks to you, we now have. And it's something that hopefully all these therapeutic modalities keep in mind. I mean, I don't know whether or not the acupuncturists are talking to the physical therapists are talking to the physician, but I guess this is the reason for referrals, right? Why somebody has a primary care doc then it and it, you know, radiates down to the rest. Is that

2 (2h 35m 58s):
Why in, in a, in an ideal utopian world, that's exactly it. I mean, outside of comprehensive pain centers that have all of the stuff co-located, you are dependent on a doc to play quarterback and bring all those referrals together. It's incredibly challenging for a primary care doc to do that with a limited amount of time they're given to see a person. This is where we're trying to use technology to, to help better with that integration. And I, I do think there's hope for the future. We'll have better ways of managing that and handling it.

0 (2h 36m 35s):
What is your view on non-prescription compounds? So-called Supplements or nutraceuticals for the treatment of pain.

2 (2h 36m 43s):
Fascinating topic. This country's rather unique in having, you know, a, a wide slew of over the counter agents that are actually prescription in Europe and in other countries. And there are over the counter agents that have been shown to be effective for a number of pain conditions. So for Neuropathic Pain Acetyl Carnitine is one of them. Acetyl Carnitine is thought to work on mitochondrial metabolism and improve mitochondrial health. And it's been used, I believe as a anti-aging and maybe even a Cognitive enhancement agent.

2 (2h 37m 27s):
You need. And it's been studied out of an Australian study, I think it was called the Sydney Trials actually. And what they found, it's one of the few over the counter agents that actually had disease modifying properties, meaning they studied this in diabetic neuropathy. The clinical endpoint was not pain Reduction, the clinical endpoint was nerve conduction velocity changes. And that's how we monitor. Nerve health is in a normal nerve, they move nerve blood pulses move at a certain rate and when they're injured from diabetes, they, they, you know, it's much slower and you lose signal. This actually improved nerve health.

2 (2h 38m 7s):
You can buy those at a Vitamin shop, order them online. Alpha Lipoic Acid is another one. Alpha Lipoic Acid, at least two mechanisms. One is it's a free radical scavenger and second that's been more recent is It is a T type calcium channel modulator and calcium channels are in our nerves and it turns those down and it can have some benefit for Neuropathic Pain. People have taken Alpha Lipoic Acid for a general sense of wellbeing and It is generally well tolerated. It can cause a little bit of stomach upset.

2 (2h 38m 47s):
I will tell you, I took this one myself for a while and this is, you know, again, just an n of one. What I found though is you have T type calcium channels in your heart and I do hi, a high intensity interval training and I was finding I couldn't get my heart rate over 150. So I had, I stopped it. That's not a adverse event, that's just an annoyance. But that's useful Vitamin C. So if you're going in for surgery and it's maybe a nerve related surgery that you're gonna have, they found Vitamin, C prophylactically can reduce the likelihood of having certain nerve pain conditions after surgery.

2 (2h 39m 28s):
Fish oil of the omega threes have been found to be beneficial around Chronic Pain. More recently, the data here is on smaller numbers. Creatine, which I imagine you've probably talked about at, at at some length, but Creatine has shown in small pilot studies some benefit in fibromyalgia and some other types of conditions. So there are a number of these substances that are backed up beyond the, you know, the a data that we joke about the anecdotal, there's actually good randomized controlled trials. And this is something that people can easily take advantage of.

2 (2h 40m 12s):
Just be mindful that just because it's natural, just because it's over the counter doesn't equate with a hundred percent safety. Meaning get educated about the side effects and the adverse events get educated about the drug drug interactions, the agent agent interactions. And for instance, there are these over the counter agents, some of which you wanna be careful of and not taking when you're going into surgery because they can be platelet inhibitors and they can cause you to bleed more.

0 (2h 40m 50s):
Isn't Vitamin C one such comp substance? Oh

2 (2h 40m 55s):
That, that causes

0 (2h 40m 56s):
Excessive bleeding or, or some people report that high levels of omega threes can increase the, can reduce the viscosity of the blood, meaning you bleed easier.

2 (2h 41m 8s):
The, the omega threes the fish oils. Yes, absolutely. The Vitamin C, I'm not familiar honestly with

0 (2h 41m 14s):
That as a blood thin agent. Yeah, maybe I'm, I'm misinformed there or I'm,

2 (2h 41m 18s):
Or maybe I'm just forgetting it. But that's, that's one I don't usually think of as a, a blunt, thinner, someone

0 (2h 41m 23s):
Will put in the show note comments one way or the other.

2 (2h 41m 26s):
I'll get corrected. I I But there's a number of these over the counter agents that are, that are available. The vast majority are innocuous that I've mentioned, that I've mentioned.

0 (2h 41m 37s):
Innocuous meaning they, they don't cause harm at the, at reasonable dosage. Thank you. But they can have positive effects.

2 (2h 41m 44s):
Well perfectly stated. Yeah.

0 (2h 41m 47s):
Well thank you for sharing that list. I think as you mentioned, many compounds that are only available pipe prescription overseas are, are Indeed available over the counter in the US in this area of nutraceuticals. Like a Supplements is still an area that's actively debated depending on people's stance. But it's refreshing to hear somebody who's, you know, a formerly trained physician and and scientist who embraces so many different approaches in, in the treatment of pain. Along those lines, perhaps you'd be willing to talk about the psychological treatments that can be effective for pain.

2 (2h 42m 23s):
Again, absolutely critical in the management of people with, you know, wide range of pain problems. And recall what we talked about is, you know, this is nociception, these are the signals coming up to the Brain once it hits the Brain. You know, we're dealing with everything that person has lived through and also is currently experiencing, meaning their levels of anxiety, depression, how they cope with pain in the past, how they cope with it. Now, early life experiences is a paper that just came out in JAMA literally in the last few days where they did a meta-analysis of brain imaging studies on people with early adverse life events.

2 (2h 43m 10s):
And what they found is abnormalities and emotional processing, emotional functioning in people who have these, giving strong evidence that what happens to you early in life impacts us as adults and stays with us. It changes our wiring. Now this is where in part pain psychologists, behavioral therapists can come in, they can help with some of the maladaptive coping, the the thought processes involved with pain. They can help teach skills. So for the vast majority of pain, Psychology, this is not your typical psychoanalytic lying on a couch, you know, talking about, you know, whatever.

2 (2h 43m 56s):
This is about teaching people skills incredibly helpful. Does it eliminate pain? Few of the things that we do actually eliminate pain. What we're trying to do is chip away, you know, a little bit with this medication, a little bit with this proce sometimes this procedure bit with Psychology. We're trying to hit all of these pathways in aggregate to make a real difference. The pain psychologists use classically techniques like Cognitive, Behavioral, Therapy, which involves often recognizing these unhelpful thoughts and patterns that we all get into around pain and even life to interrupting those thoughts, to helping people again with goal setting and Pacing to teach people relaxation techniques through deep breathing things like Biofeedback and Silicon Valley where I practice the engineers love the Biofeedback.

2 (2h 45m 4s):
I'm an engineer by formal trainings. I get it. But it's that closed loop feedback because remember the, the Brain is controlling the periphery and controlling the sympathetic nervous system. And when we're in pain, our sympathetic nervous system gets revved up. When the sympathetic nervous system gets revved up, blood vessels constrict, heart rate goes up, our muscles get tense. And we need sometimes ways of learning how to calm down that sympathetic nervous system. Cognitive, Behavioral, Therapy, Stress, Reduction Acceptance and Commitment therapy are some of the tools that they use.

2 (2h 45m 46s):
My partner Beth, has developed a brief intervention called Empowered Relief. Yes, I'm biased, it works. We've studied this in an NIH funded study and it's a way of getting eight weeks of Cognitive, Behavioral Therapy in two hours. Wow. Not meant to replace CBT, but as an additional tool. And you're gonna see as time goes by, more and more of these tools come out and the beauty of them is they're gonna be much easier to disseminate broadly to the public than, for instance, a pill. You know, I can't, we can't just go put into FedEx or the US post office, you know, start sending out pills to everybody, but we can develop treatments online that can teach people skills and really help.

0 (2h 46m 35s):
Is that the plan for this abbreviated but equally effective Cognitive, Behavioral Therapy?

2 (2h 46m 42s):
Yes. Now you're getting into kind of my BE'S and my life mission. So, you know, I've spent the last 12 years building a digital platform, a health platform that we've integrated into clinics and capture high quality data covering all aspects of people's physical Psychological and social functioning. And the reason for that is to address a critical need that we have on better quality data about people. The data and the information that we have on people with pain and many health conditions is terrible. And so I created this platform to be able to capture high quality data, put it to use, use AI in the background for prediction.

2 (2h 47m 25s):
And now Beth has created these brief interventions which we're integrating and the notion is to make that widely available for free. We're giving it all away. Like I said, this is a life mission. We both have been blessed to be at Stanford where we have everything, but you know, you go just 30 miles, 40 miles outside of the Bay Area and you're in a healthcare desert. And I don't say that disparaging to any docs working out there, but it's different. There's only a handful of large academic centers and large practices in the country.

2 (2h 48m 7s):
When you get outside those, in those catchment areas, people struggle with how to get good quality care. You asked that question earlier, how do you find good quality care? And so we're working to make that, that available to everybody.

0 (2h 48m 22s):
Fantastic. I was going to ask you as a final question, what is your, if you had one wish for the future of pain medicine and the treatment of pain, what that would be? Before you answer that, I'll just add an answer that you already gave, which is, it sounds like the implementation of this incredible set of tools and database that you've collaborated with Dr. Darnell Beth Darnell to, to develop is at least one of them. So now that, that, that answer was given by me, then you can, it frees up the opportunity for you to give another answer. What is the, if you had one wish for the field of pain medicine going forward, what what would that wish be?

2 (2h 49m 6s):
Yeah, so a few years ago, I co-led for the country the development of the National Pain Strategy. And this was sponsored by the NIH and Health and Human Services. And I co-led this with Dr. Linda Porter from the NIH. We brought together 80 national experts in pain research, pain clinical care, pain policy, and people with lived experience with pain. We put together a strategic plan for the country on how to enact a cultural transformation and change the way we assess care for people with pain. How we educate professionals, how we communicate with the public.

2 (2h 49m 50s):
My wish would be for full implementation of the National Pain Strategy. It unfortunately took back seat when it was released the same time with the CDC opioid guidelines and the Opioid guidelines sucked all the oxygen out of the room. But the, the strategic plan, it was well thought out. It's the one that we have for our country. It's non-controversial, non-partisan It is motherhood and apple pie. And it's, if we just actually implement what we put forward, it'll make a huge difference in the lives of people living with pain.

0 (2h 50m 31s):
Is there anything that people listening to this podcast can do to try and move the implementation of that initiative up? Are there congress people to call? I mean, this is how, yes, that's how I learned in junior high school and high school, what little I attended. And by the way, go to school folks, I had to catch up a lot. But I do remember them saying that, you know, this was a democracy is a democracy and that those phone calls and letters can often matter for what gets, you know, sent up the flagpole and what ultimately gets approved and implemented. Beautifully

2 (2h 51m 2s):
Stated, you're, you're absolutely right. And in fact the NIUs for the National Pain Strategy originally came about through a number of concerned citizens with pain doing that very thing and lobbying what became a bipartisan, you don't hear that much anymore. Bipartisan effort to put forward a National Pain Care Act that got put into the Affordable Care Act that called for the development of an Institute of Medicine Report on Pain that led to the National Pain Strategy all starting with concerned people making those phone calls and writing those letters.

0 (2h 51m 44s):
So that means calling your congressman and congresswoman leaving messages. I hear this works. I mean, I know people, they're doing this for other initiatives and one call, two calls doesn't make much of a difference. But that if people are saying, you know, this is important to them, that people in power eventually start taking action.

2 (2h 52m 4s):
The, the legislators, they listen And, and in part, again, part of this life mission, both to develop this platform, I've created a nonprofit called Pain USA and its main mission is to help advance the implementation of the National Pain Strategy and baked within that is this platform also to use high quality data to better inform the care of patients of people with pain and to deliver high quality treatments. 'cause we do know also that people listen to data and we need good quality data to influence those messages. But please, yes, make those calls, write those letters.

2 (2h 52m 44s):
It does work

0 (2h 52m 45s):
Well. Sean, Dr. Mackey, thank you so much for everything that you're doing. You took us on quite a tour in terms of depth and breadth of the thing that we think of. And it unfortunately, in some cases, experience as pain, although we also learned it's highly adaptive in some cases, can protect us. Does Indeed protect us? Thank you for taking us on that tour of the biology, the Psychology, the various treatments, the context in which all of this exists. We touched into some somewhat controversial areas, but I really appreciate the thoroughness and the nuance and the sensitivity with which you touch into all of those issues. And just on behalf of myself and everybody listening, I just really want to thank you.

0 (2h 53m 26s):
You've contributed a great deal today to the public education of what pain is, what it isn't, and how to treat it. So thank you ever so much.

2 (2h 53m 36s):
Thank you Dr. Huberman. I appreciate the opportunity to come on and spend some time and you're giving a platform to help educate and inform people out there. I gotta tell you, nobody does it better. You've, you've been absolutely amazing and thank you again.

0 (2h 53m 51s):
Thank you. It's a labor of love and I appreciate the kind words come back again. Thank

2 (2h 53m 56s):
You.

0 (2h 53m 57s):
Thank you for joining me today for my discussion all about pain and ways to control pain with Dr. Sean Mackey. I hope you found the conversation to be as interesting and as informative as I did. To learn more about and explore some of the resources that Dr. Mackey mentioned during today's episode, please refer to the show note captions. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero-cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on both Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review. Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. If you have questions or comments for me or guests or topics that you'd like me to include on the Huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comments on YouTube.

0 (2h 54m 43s):
I do read all the comments during today's episode and on many previous episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast, we discuss Supplements. While Supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them for things like improving sleep, for hormone support and for focus. The Huberman Lab podcast has partnered with Momentous Supplements and we've done that for several reasons. First of all, Momentous Supplements are of the very highest quality second Momentous ships internationally, which we realize is important because many of you reside outside of the United States. Third Momentous Supplements tend to focus on single ingredient formulations, which is important if you want to develop the most biologically and cost-effective supplement regimen. For you to learn more about the Supplements discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast, please go to live Momentous dot com slash Huberman.

0 (2h 55m 28s):
Again, that's live Momentous spelled OU s.com/ Huberman. If you're not already following me on Social Media, I am Huberman Lab on all Social Media platforms. So that's Instagram, Twitter, now called X Threads, LinkedIn and Facebook. And on all of those platforms, I discuss science and science related tools, some of which overlaps with the content of the Huberman Lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from the content on the Huberman Lab podcast. Again, that's Huberman Lab on all Social Media platforms. If you haven't already subscribed to our Neural Network Newsletter It is a zero cost Newsletter. That includes summaries of podcast episodes, as well as protocols in the form of brief one to three page PDFs for things like how to improve sleep, how to regulate dopamine, deliberate cold exposure, deliberate heat exposure, exercise protocols, and much more.

0 (2h 56m 14s):
To sign up, simply go to Huberman Lab dot com, go to the menu tab, scroll down to Newsletter, and provide us with your email. And I want to point out that we do not share your email with anybody. And again, the Newsletter is completely zero cost. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion all about pain and ways to control pain with Dr. Sean Mackey. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science.