0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman lab podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford school of medicine. Today. My guest is Dr. Charles Zucker. Dr. Zucker is a professor of biochemistry and molecular biophysics and of neuroscience at Columbia university school of medicine. Dr. Zilker is one of the world's leading experts in perception. That is how the nervous system converts physical stimuli in the world into events within the nervous system that we come to understand as our sense of smell, our sense of taste, our sense of vision, our sense of touch, and our sense of hearing Dr.

0 (43s):
Zucker's lab is responsible for a tremendous amount of pioneering and groundbreaking work in the area of perception for a long time. His laboratory worked on vision, defining the very receptors that allow for the conversion of light into signals that the rest of the eye and the brain can understand. In recent years, his laboratory is focused mainly on the perception of taste. And indeed his laboratories are responsible for discovering many of the taste receptors leading to our perception of things like sweetness, sourness, bitterness, saltiness, and umami that is savory ness in food. Doctors occurs. Laboratory is also responsible for doing groundbreaking work on the sense of thirst. That is how the nervous system determines whether or not we should ingest more fluid or reject fluids that are offered to us.

0 (1m 29s):
A key feature of the work from doctors workers laboratory is that it bridges the brain and body. As you'll soon learn from today's discussion. His laboratory has discovered a unique set of sugar sensing neurons that exist not just within the brain, but a separate set of neurons that sent sweetness and sugar within the body. And that much of the communication between the brain and body leading to our seeking of sugar is below our conscious detection. Dr. Zucker has received a large number of prestigious awards and appointments as a consequence of his discoveries in neuroscience. He is a member of the national academy of sciences, the national academy of medicine, and the American association for the advancement of science. He is also an investigator with the Howard Hughes medical Institute.

0 (2m 10s):
For those of you that are not familiar with the so-called H H M I, the Howard Hughes medical Institute, Howard Hughes medical Institute, investigators are selected on an extremely competitive basis. And indeed they have to come back every five years and prove themselves worthy of being reappointed as Howard Hughes investigators. Dr. Zucker has been at Howard Hughes investigator since 1989. What all that means for you as a viewer and or listener of today's podcast, is that you are about to learn about the nervous system and its ability to create perceptions and particularly the perception of taste and sugar sensing from the world's expert on perception and taste. I'm certain that by the end of today's podcast, you're not just going to come away with a deeper understanding of our perceptions and our perception of tastes in particular.

0 (2m 55s):
But indeed you will come away with an understanding of how we create internal of the entire world around us and in doing so, how we come to understand our life experience. I'm pleased to announce that the human lab podcast is now partnered with momentous supplements. We often talk about supplements on the hubris and lab podcast, and while supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them. For things like enhancing the quality and speed with which you get into sleep or for enhancing focus or for hormone support. The reason we partnered with momentous supplements is several fold. First of all, their supplements are of the absolute highest quality. Second of all, they ship internationally, which is important because many of our podcast listeners reside outside the U S third, many of the supplements that momentous makes and most all of the supplements that we partnered with them directly on our single ingredient formulations.

0 (3m 45s):
This is important for a number of reasons. First of all, if you're going to create a supplement protocol, that's customized for your needs, you want to be able to figure out which supplement ingredients are most essential and only use those and supplements that combine lots of ingredients simply won't allow you to do that. So in trying to put together a supplement protocol for yourself, that's the most biologically effective and cost-effective single ingredient formulations are going to be the most useful. If you'd like to see the supplements that we partnered with momentous on, you can go to live momentous.com/huberman, and there you'll see many of the supplements that we've talked repeatedly about on the Huberman lab podcast episodes. I should mention that the catalog of supplements that are available@livemomentous.com slash Huberman is constantly being expanded.

0 (4m 26s):
So you can check back there, live momentous.com/huberman to see what's currently available. And from time to time, you'll notice new supplements being added to the inventory. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public and keeping with that theme. I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

Thesis (4m 51s):
Our first sponsor, his thesis thesis makes custom nootropics and for frequent listeners of this podcast, you may remember that I'm not a big fan of the word nootropics because the word nootropics means smart drugs or smart compound. And the reason I don't like that phrase is that the brain has many different circuits that it uses in order to perform things like focus or tasks switching or creativity. So the idea that there's a single thing that we would call a smart drug is simply not in concert with the biology. Well, thesis understands this. And as a consequence has developed custom nootropic formulations that are tailored to your unique needs. So for instance, thesis will allow you to try different blends over the course of a month and determine which blends of specific ingredients work best for you to focus or for you to gain motivation and energy for workouts or for cognitive work of some sort. I've been using thesis custom nootropics for well over six months now. And they've completely transformed the way that I do cognitive work and indeed the way that I do physical fitness. If you want to try your own personalized nootropic starter kit, you can go online to take thesis.com/huberman. There. You'll just do a brief three minute quiz and thesis. We'll send you four different formulas to try in your first month. That's take thesis.com/huberman and use the code Huberman at checkout to get 10% off. Your first box

ROKA (6m 10s):
today's episode is also brought to us by Roca. Rocha makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are the absolute highest quality. The company was founded by two All-American swimmers from Stanford and everything about Roca, eyeglasses and sunglasses were designed with performance in mind and with the biology of the visual system in mind, I spent my lifetime working on the visual system, and I can tell you that your visual system has to contend with a number of very important challenges in order to be able to see the world around you. Clearly, things like adjusting for background illumination so that when you go from a sunny area to a shady area, you can see what's in front of you still with crystal clarity.

0 (6m 42s):
Roca takes all of that into account when designing their eyeglasses and sunglasses, their eyeglasses and sunglasses also have some unique qualities for instance, because they were initially designed for performance with things like running and cycling. If you get sweaty, they won't fall off your face. Also they're extremely lightweight. In fact, most of the time, I don't even remember that I'm wearing them. I wear Roca eyeglasses at night. So I wear readers and I wear sunglasses often during the day, if it's very bright or if I'm driving, if you'd like to try Roca, eyeglasses, and sunglasses, you can go to Roca. That's R O K a.com and enter the code human to save 20% off. Your first order

Helix (7m 15s):
today's episode is also brought to us by helix sleep. Helix sleep makes mattresses and pillows that are uniquely tailored to your sleep needs. I've talked repeatedly about the fact that sleep is the foundation of mental health, physical health, and performance. So getting adequate deep sleep is absolutely essential. Now, one of the key things to getting a great night's sleep is to make sure that the surface that you're sleeping on is the right one for you. Helix understands this, and they've created a sleep quiz that is you go to their website and you fill out a brief quiz that asks questions like, do you sleep on your side, your back, your stomach, do you tend to run hot or cold during the night? Maybe you don't know the answers. In which case you simply say, you don't know by taking that quiz, they will match you to a mattress that is ideal for your sleep needs. I took that quiz and I matched to the so-called dusk, D U S K mattress. And I've been sleeping on that mattress for some time now, and it's the best sleep that I've ever had. So if you're interested in upgrading your mattress to one, that's uniquely tailored to your sleep needs, you can go to helix, sleep.com/huberman, take their two minutes sleep quiz, and they'll match you to a customized mattress. And you'll get up to $200 off any mattress order and two free pillows. They have a 10 year warranty and you get to try out that mattress for a hundred nights. Risk-free they'll even pick it up for if you don't love it. But I do believe that you will love it because you'll be sleeping far better than you have before. Again, if you're interested, you can go to helix sleep.com/huberman to get up to $200 off and two free pillows.

0 (8m 33s):
And now for my discussion with Dr. Charles Zilker, Charles, thank you so much for joining me today. My pleasure. I want to ask you about many things related to taste and gustatory perception, but maybe to start off and because you've worked on a number of different topics in neuroscience, not just taste, how do you think about perception and, or rather, I should say, how should the world and people think about perception, how it's different from sensation and what leads to our experience of life in terms of vision, hearing, taste, et cetera.

2 (9m 10s):
So, you know, the brain is an extraordinary Oregon, that weights, maybe 2% of your body mass, yet it consumes anywhere between 25 to 30% of all of your energy on oxygen. And it gets transformed into a mind and this mind changes the human condition. He make. He changes. He transforms in a fear into courage, conformity, into TVT sadness, into happiness.

2 (9m 55s):
How, how, how the hell does that happen? Now, the challenge that the brain faces is that the world is made of real things. You know, this here is a glass and this is a cord and this is a microphone, but the brain is only made of neurons that only understand electrical signals. So how do you transform that reality into nothing that electrical signals that now need to represent the world? And that process is weekend is where we can operationally define as perception in the census, let's say, or factory or taste vision.

2 (10m 46s):
You know, we can very straightforwardly, separate detection from perception detection is what happens when you take a sugar molecule, you put it in your tongue and then a set of specific cells now sends that sugar molecule that's detection. You haven't perceived anything yet. That is yes, your cells and your tongue interacting with this chemical. But now that cell gets activated and sends a signal to the brain and now detection gets transformed into perception. And he's trying to understand how that happens. That's been the, the maniacal drive of my entire career in neuroscience.

2 (11m 36s):
How would this, the brain ultimately transform detection into perception so that he can guide actions and behaviors? Does that make sense?

0 (11m 47s):
Absolutely. And is a very clear and beautiful description as sort of high-level question related to that. And then I think we can get into some of the intermediate steps. Yes. I think many people would like to know whether or not my perception of the color of your shirt is the same as your perception.

2 (12m 6s):
I might okay to interrupt you as you're, as I'm guessing what you're going. All right. Very good

0 (12m 12s):
Corruption is welcomed on this podcast. The audience will always penalize me for interrupting you and would never penalize you for interrupting.

2 (12m 19s):
I like the one way penalized. Now, given what they told you before that the brain is striving to represent the world based in nothing but the transformation of these signals into electrical, you know, languages that down neurons have to encode and decode. It follows that your brain is different than my brain. And therefore it follows that the way that you're perceiving the world must be different than mine, even when receiving the same sensory cues. Okay. And I'll tell you about an experiment.

2 (12m 60s):
It's a simple experiment. You brilliant. That demonstrates why we perceive the world, how we perceive the world different. So in the world of vision, as you know, well, well now we have three classes of photo receptor neurons that sends three basic colors, red, blue, and green it blue, green, and red. If we go from short to long wavelength and these three are sufficient to accommodate the full visible spectrum, I want to take three light projectors.

2 (13m 41s):
And then when that project with the button into a white screen, it red light and the other one green light I'm want to overlap the two beams and on the screen to the be yellow. Okay. These days superposition when you have two beams of red and green, and then the one to take a third projector, and I'm going to put a filter that projects right next with that mixed beam, a spectrally pure yellow. And I'm going to ask you to come to the red and green projectors and play with intensity knockoffs so that you can match that yellow, that you're projecting to the spectrally pure next to it.

2 (14m 27s):
Is this making sense? Perfect sense. And then I'm going to write down the numbers in those two volume intensity knockoffs, and then I'm going to ask the next person to do the same. And then I'm going to ask every person around this area of battery park in New York to do the same, and guess what we're going to end up with thousands of number combinations.

0 (14m 54s):
Amazing.

2 (14m 55s):
So for all of us is yellow enough that we can use a common language, but for every one of us, that yellow is going to be every so slightly differently. And so I think that simple psychological experiment beautifully illustrates how we truly perceive the world differently.

0 (15m 17s):
I love that example. And yet, in that example, we know the basic elements from which color is created. If we migrate into a slightly different sense, let me pick a hard one, like

2 (15m 31s):
Sound,

0 (15m 32s):
Sound, or olfaction. Yeah,

2 (15m 33s):
Very hard then to do an experiment that will allow us to get that degree of brand new Larry T and beautiful causality, where we can show that a produces and leads to B. If I give you the smell of a rose, you can describe it to me. If I smelled the same rose, I can describe it also, but I have no way, what did the two of us are experiencing the same, but it's close enough that we can both pretty much say that it has the following enough features or other determinants, but no question that your experience is different than my,

0 (16m 21s):
The fact that it's good enough for us to both survive that your perception of yellow and my perception of yellow at least up until now is good enough for us both to survive. It raises a thought about a statement made by a colleague of ours. Markus Meister at Caltech has never been on this podcast, but in a review that I read by Marcus, at one point, he said that the basic function of perception is to divide our behavioral responses into that outcomes downstream of three basic emotional responses. Yum, I like it yuck.

0 (17m 3s):
I hate it. Or ma whatever, when you think about, I'm not looking to establish a debate between your markets without Marcus

2 (17m 12s):
Here,

0 (17m 12s):
But what I like about that is that it seems like the, we know the brain is a very economical organ in some sense, despite its high metabolic demands and this variation in perception from one individual to the next, at once, seems like a problem because we're all literally seeing different things. And yet we function, we function well enough for most of us to avoid death and cliffs and eating poisons and so forth and to enjoy some aspects of life. One hopes. Yes. So is there a general statement that we can make about the brain, not just as a organ to generate perception, not just as an Oregon to keep us alive, but also in Oregon that is, is trying to batch our behaviors into general categories of,

2 (18m 2s):
I think so, but again, I think the world of Marcus too, and I think he's right that, you know, broadly speaking, you could categorize a lot of behaviors falling into those three categories and that's 100% likely to be the case for animals in the wild we're, you know, the choices are not necessarily binary, but they're very unique and distinct. Yeah. Do I want to eat these? Do I want to kill that? Do I want to go there? Or do I want to go here?

2 (18m 45s):
We humans deviated from that world long ago and, you know, learn to experience life where we do things that we should not be doing

0 (19m 1s):
Some of us more than

2 (19m 2s):
Others. Exactly. You know, in, in my own world of taste, the likelihood that an animal in the wild will enjoy eating something bitter it's inconceivable. Yet we love tonic water. We enjoy, we like living on the edge. We love enjoying experiences that makes us human. And that goes beyond that simple set of categories, which is yummy yucky, who cares.

2 (19m 52s):
And so I think it's not about pilot, but I think it's, it's overly reductionist for certainly what we humans do.

0 (20m 4s):
I agree. And since we're here in New York, I can say that the many options, the extensive variety of food, flora and fauna in New York explains a lot of the more nuanced behaviors that we observe. Let's talk about taste because while you've done extensive work in the field of vision, and it's a topic that I love we could spend all day on taste is fascinating. First of all, I'd like to know why you migrated from studying vision to studying taste. And perhaps in that description, you could highlight to us why we should think about and how we should think about this sense of taste.

2 (20m 47s):
My goal has been to understand, as I highlighted before how the brain does its magic, you know what part you might wonder, ideally, I like to help contribute to understand all of it. You know, how, how do you encode and decode emotions? How do you go then decode memories and actions? How do you make decisions? How do you transform the tensioning to perception? And the list goes on and on. But one of the key things in science, as you know, is ensuring that you always ask the right question so that you have an possibility of answering.

2 (21m 33s):
Because if the question cannot be tractable or reduced to an experimental path that helps you resolve it, then we ended up doing some really fun science, but not necessarily answering the important problem that we want to study. It makes sense. All right.

0 (21m 52s):
From a first-person perspective. Yes. The hardest question, the most important question is what are you going? What question are you going to try again?

2 (22m 0s):
Yeah. And so, and so for example, I wouldn't have to understand the neural basis of empathy.

0 (22m 9s):
It's a big market for that

2 (22m 12s):
100%, but I wouldn't even know. I mean, at the molecular level, that's what we do. How do the circuits in your brain create that? Since I have not clue how to do it, I can come up with ways to think about it. But I like to understand what in your brain makes someone a great philanthropist. What is the neural basis of love? I wouldn't even know where to begin. So if I want to begin to study these questions about brain function, that can cover so many aspects of the brain, I need to choose a problem that affords me that window, but in a way that it can ask questions that get me answers.

2 (22m 58s):
And among the senses that, you know, have the capacity of transforming detection, into perception of being stories, memories of creating emotions, of giving you different, the different actions and perceptions as a function of the internal state. You know, when you're hungry, things stays very differently than when you're sated. How Y when you taste something, you now remember this amazing meal you have with your first date, how does that happen? All right. So, so if I want to begin to explore all of these things that the brain does, I felt I have to choose a sensory system that affords some degree of simplicity in the way that the input output relationships are put together.

2 (23m 55s):
I mean, a way that still can be used to ask everyone of these problems that the brain has to ultimately compute and code and decode. And what's remarkable about the taste system at the time that I began working on this is that nothing was known about the molecular basis of taste. You know, we knew that we could taste what has been usually defined as debate. The five basic tastes, qualities, sweet sour, bitter salty, and umami. Umami is a Japanese word. That means a yummy, delicious, and that's nearly every animal species that tastes of amino acids and Inhumans is mostly associated with the taste of MSG, monosodium glutamate, one amino acid in particular,

0 (24m 51s):
What are just by way of example, some foods that are rich in the umami evoking, a stimulation,

2 (24m 59s):
Seaweed, tomatoes, cheese, and it's a great, great flavor. Enhancer. It enriches our sensory experience. And so the beautiful thing of the system is that the lines of input are limited to five, no sweet sour beat us all at the end of Miami. And each of them has a predetermined, meaning you are born liking sugar and this like in bitter, you have no choice. These are hard wire systems, but of course you can learn to dislike sugar and to like Beecher's, but in the wild let's take humans out of the equation.

2 (25m 47s):
Dude, these are a hundred percent predetermined. You're born with that specific valence value for each taste of sweet umami and low salt are attractive tastes qualities. They evoke a baited the responses I want to consume them. And bitter and sour are innately, predetermined to be aversive.

0 (26m 18s):
Could I interrupt you just briefly and ask a question about that exact point for something to be appetitive to, and some mother tastes to be a Versive and for those to be hardwired, can we assume that the sensation of very bitter of activation of bitter receptors in the mouth activates a neural circuit that causes closing of the mouth retraction of the tongue and retraction of the body and that the taste of something sweet might actually induce more licking

2 (26m 51s):
A hundred percent. You got it, the activation of the receptors in the tongue, the recognized sweet versus the ones that recognize bitter activate an entire behavioral program. And that program that we can refer as a competitiveness or aversion it's composed of many different sub routines in the case of beater is very easy to actually look at, see them happening in animals. Because the first thing you do is you stop leaking. Then you put a unhappy face, then you're screened your eyes, and then you start gagging.

2 (27m 34s):
And that entire thing happens by the activation of a bitter molecule in a bitter sense in solving your tall. It's incredible. It's again, the magic of the brain, you know, how, how it's able to encode and decode these extraordinary actions and behaviors in response of nothing by the simple, very, you know, a unique sensory stimuli. Now, let me say that this pallet of five basic tastes accommodate all the dietary needs of the organism. Sweet to ensure that we get the right amount of energy umami, to ensure that we get proteins and that the essential nutrient sold the three repetitive ones to ensure that we maintain our electrolyte balance Beecher to prevent the ingestion of toxic nauseous chemicals, nearly all better tasting, you know, things out in the wild are bad for you and sour, most likely to prevent ingestion of spoiled.

2 (28m 39s):
I seed fermented foods. And that seed that is the palette that we deal with. Now, of course, there's a difference between basic taste and flavor flavor is the whole experience. Flavor is the combination of multiple tastes coming together to get the weed, smell with texture, with temperature, with the look of it that gives you what you and I would call the full sensory experience. But we say in these need to reduce the, the problem into its basic elements. So we can begin to break it apart before we put it back together.

2 (29m 22s):
So when we think about the sense of taste, and we tried to figure out how these lines of information go from your tongue to your brain and how they signal and how they get integrated and how they trigger all these different behaviors. We look at them as individual qualities. So we give the animal sweet, are we give them a bitter? We eat them sour. We avoid mixes because the first stage of discovery is still have that clarity as to what you're trying to extract so that you can hopefully meaningfully make a difference by being able to figure out how is it that a goes to B to C and to the, does this make sense?

2 (30m 7s):
Yes.

0 (30m 8s):
Almost like the primary colors to create the full array of the color spectrum.

2 (30m 13s):
Exactly.

0 (30m 13s):
Before I ask you about the, the first and second and third stages of taste and flavor perception, is there any idea that there may be more than five?

2 (30m 23s):
Yeah. There, there is. For example, what about fat?

0 (30m 27s):
I love the, and I love the texture of fat, especially if it's slightly burnt, like the, the F in south America. When I visited one of Cyrus, I found that at the end of a meal, they would take a steak, the trimming off the edge of the steak, burn it slightly, and then serve it back to me. And I thought, that's disgusting. And then I tasted it and it's delightful. It is. There's nothing quite like it.

2 (30m 52s):
The, this goes back to this notion before that we like to live on the edge and we like to do things that we should not be doing Andrew. But on the other hand, look at those muscles,

0 (31m 5s):
The, the, I don't suggest anyone eat pure fat, the listeners to this podcast. I'm sure there'll be a YouTube video soon that I like eating pure fat. I'm not in on a ketogenic diet, et cetera, but, but fat is tasty as evidenced by the obesity problem that exists here.

2 (31m 24s):
Well, we'll talk about that, you know, in a little bit about the, you know, the gut brain axis, I think it would be important to cover it because it's the other side of the taste system. And so, so missing tastes, you know, one is fat, although like you clearly highlighted a lot of fat taste in quotation marks is really the feeling of five rolling on your tongue. And so there is a, a, a compelling argument that a lot of what we call fat tastes it's really mechano.

2 (32m 6s):
Sensory is somato sensory cells, cells. They're not responding to taste, but they're responding to mechanical stimulation or five molecules rolling on the tongue that gives you that perception of fat.

0 (32m 21s):
I love the idea that there is a perception of fat, regardless of whether or not there's a dedicated receptor for fatty, mostly because it's evoking sensations and imagery of, of the taste of slightly burnt fat

2 (32m 35s):
For, for example. And another one, you know, you could argue is metallic taste. You know, I know exactly what it tastes like. You know, if you asked me to explain it, I will have a hard time. You know, what, whether the pallets of that color that can allow me to define it. I, I, I wouldn't be easy, but I know precisely what it tastes like, you know, take a, take a penny, put it in your mouth and you know, what it tastes like. Yeah. Or blood blood. That's another very good example. And is there really, you know, a receptor for metallic taste or it's nothing bad, this magical combination of the activation of the existing lines, think of it as lines of information, you separate lies by the keys of a piano.

2 (33m 22s):
Yeah. Sweet sour beats. I'll do Miami. You play the key and you activate the one chord. And that when the court, in the case of a piano leads to a note, you know, a tune and in the case of taste, lead to an action and a behavior, but you play many of them together. And something emerges that it's different than any one of the pieces. And it's possible that metallic, for example, represents the combination of the activity yes. In the right ratio makes these other lines.

0 (33m 57s):
It makes sense. And it actually provides a perfect, the, your example of the piano provides a perfect segue for what I'd like to touch on next, which is w if you would describe the sequence of neural events leading to a perceptual event of taste, and I'm certain that somewhere in there, you will embed an answer to the question of whether or not we indeed have different taste receptors distributed in different locations on our tongue or elsewhere in the mouth. Yes.

2 (34m 29s):
So, so let's, let's start by, by, by debunking that, that old tale and meat who

0 (34m 36s):
Came over with that,

2 (34m 38s):
He, there are many views, but the, the most prevalent is that there was an original drawing describing the sensitivity of the tongue to different tastes. So imagine I can take a Q-tip, this is a thought experiment. Yeah. And then when a deep that Q-tip in solved, I mean, quinine or something, bitter and glucose or something sweet. And then when to take the QT asks you to stick your tongue out and third, moving it around your tongue and asks you whether you feel, and then I'm going to change the concentration of the amount of sold or the amount of bidder and ask, can I get some sort of a map of sensitivity to the different tastes?

2 (35m 32s):
And the argument that has emerged is that there is a good likelihood that did they, that was simply mistranslated as he was being drawn. And of course, that led to an entire industry. This is the way you maximize your wine experience, because now we're going to form the vessel that you're going to drink from so that it acts maximally on the receptors, which happen. All right, now there is no tongue map. Alright. We have tastes bats distributed in various parts of the tongue.

2 (36m 13s):
So there is a map on the distribution of taste buds, but each taste Bob has around the hundred taste receptor cells. And the stage receptor cells can be a five types. Yeah. Sweet sour, bitter, salty, or mommy. And for the most part, all the taste buds have the representation of old five day quantities. Now there's no question that there is a slight bias for some taste like bitter is particularly enriched at the very back of your tongue. And there is a theological basis for that, that actually a biological basis for that.

2 (36m 56s):
That's the last line of defense before you swallow something bad. And so let's make sure that the very back of your tongue as plenty of these bad news receptors, so that even they get activated, you can trigger a gagging reflex and get rid of these that otherwise may kill you. Okay.

0 (37m 19s):
That makes good

2 (37m 20s):
Sense. But by the notion that, you know, old sweeties, indiv, frond, and sold these on the side, it's not real. And they're

0 (37m 32s):
Oh, I was just going to ask, are there, first of all, thank you for dispelling that myth. Yes. And we will propagate that information as far and wide as we can, because I think that's the number one myth related to taste. The other one is, are there taste receptors anywhere else in the mouth, for instance, on the, yeah.

2 (37m 49s):
The pilot, the pilot, not the lips. So it's, it's in the fire range at the very back of the oral cavity, the tongue and the palate, and the pilot is very rich and sweet receptors

0 (38m 3s):
Have to pay attention to this in the next time I eat something

2 (38m 6s):
Sweet where they, when you pull it up. Yeah. Now the, the, the important thing is that, you know, after the receptors for these fi the, the detectors, the molecules, that sense, sweet sour, beat, assaulted Miami. These are receptors proteins found on the surface of taste receptor cells that interact with these chemicals. And once they interact, then they trigger the cascade of events, biochemical events inside the cell that now sends an electrical signal that says, there is sweet here, or there is sold here. Now having these receptors and my laboratory identify the receptors for all five basic tastes classes, sweet bitter, salt, umami, and most recently sour.

2 (38m 54s):
Now completing the pilot, you can now use this receptors to really map where are they found in the tongue in a very rigorous way. This is no longer about using the acute team and trying to figure out what you're feeling, but rather what you have in your tongue. This is not a guest. This is now a Fisi go map that says the sweet receptors are found here. The bitter are found here. And when you do that, you'll find that in fact, every tastes bad throughout your oral coffee tea has receptors for all of the basic tastes classes.

0 (39m 36s):
Amazing. And as it turns out, and I'm sure you'll tell us important in terms of thinking about how the brain computes and codes, the codes, this thing we call taste. Yes. I'm going to inject a quick question that I'm sure is on many people's minds before we get back into the biological circuit, which is many people, including myself, are familiar with the experience of drinking a sip of tea or coffee that is too hot and burning. My tongue is the way I would describe it. Horrible. And then disrupting my sense of taste for some period of time afterward. Yes. When I experienced that phenomenon, that unfortunate phenomenon have I destroyed taste receptors that regenerate, or have I somehow used temperature to distort the function of the circuit so that I no longer taste the way I did before.

2 (40m 27s):
Excellent question. And the answer is both. It turns out that your taste receptors only leave for around two weeks and these, by the way, make sense, because here you have an Oregon, the tongue, it that he's continuously expose to everything you could range from the nicest or the most horrible possible things,

0 (40m 51s):
Your imagination.

2 (40m 53s):
And so it, you need to make sure that these cells are always coming back in a way that it can reexperience the world in the right way. And this there other Oregon's that have the same underlying logic. Okay? Your gut, your intestines are the same way. Amazing. Again, they're receiving everything that you ingest. God forbid what's there it from the spiciest, you know, to the most horrible tasting. So the most delicious, and again, those intestinal cells, whose role is to ultimately take all these nutrients and bring them into the body.

2 (41m 35s):
Also renewal in a very, very fast cycle. It or factory neurons in your nose is the other example. So then a yes, you're burning a lot of your cells and is over for those. The good news is that they're going to come back, but we know that when you burn yourself with tea, they come back, you know, within 20 minutes, 30 minutes an hour, and these cells are not renewing in that, in that timeframe where they're not listening to your needs, they have their own internal clock.

2 (42m 15s):
Okay. It, and so you are really affecting, you're damaging them in a way that they can recover. And then they come back and you also damage your somatosensory cells. These are the cells that feel things, not taste things. Okay. And then, you know, you wait half an hour or so, and then my goodness, thank God. It's back to normal.

0 (42m 45s):
And most of the time, I don't even notice the transition realizing, as you told me, and I'll later, I'll ask you about the relationship between odor and taste. But as the next step along the circuit, let's assume I ingest some let's, let's keep it simple, sweet taste.

2 (43m 4s):
Let's make it even simpler. But at the same time, perhaps more informative, let's compare and contrast sweet and bitter as we follow their lines from the tongue to the brain. So the first thing he said, the tool evoke diametrically opposed behaviors. If we have to come up with two sensory experience that represent polar opposites, it will be sweet and bitter. There are not two colors that represent polar opposites because, you know, you could say black and white, there are polar opposites. The one that takes only one thing, they are the one that takes everything, but they don't. They evoke different behaviors.

0 (43m 45s):
Even the political parties have some overlap.

2 (43m 49s):
So we then bidder or the two opposite ends of the sensory spectrum here. Now, a taste can be defined by two features again, I'm I reduction the, so I'm reducing it in a way that I think it's easier to follow the signal. And the two features are its quality and its valence. And they Linz with our little V that's. What we say in Spanish with a V means the value of that experience, all right. Or in this case, or that stimuli, and you take sweet, sweet as our quality and identity.

2 (44m 37s):
And that's what you and I will refer to as the taste of sweet. We know exactly what it tastes like, But sweet also has a positive valence, which makes it incredibly attractive and competitive, but it's attractive and repetitive. As I'll tell you in a second independent of its identity and quality. In fact, we have been able to engineer animals where we completely, we move the valence from the stimuli. So these animals can taste sweet, can recognize it as sweet, but it's no longer attractive ECS, one more chemical stimulate.

2 (45m 21s):
And that's because the identity and the valence are encoded in two separate parts of the brain. In the case of Beecher, I can eat has on the one hand it's identity, it's quality. And you know exactly what beer tastes like.

0 (45m 39s):
I can taste it now, even as you describe it,

2 (45m 42s):
But it also has a valence and that's a negative valence because it evokes aversive behaviors. Are we on?

0 (45m 52s):
Absolutely. And it comes to mind. I remember telling some kids recently that we're going to go get ice cream and it was interesting. They looked up and they started smacking their lip. Like, you know, they'll actually

2 (46m 1s):
Well, anticipatory response. Absolutely. Then when we talk about the God brain, maybe we'll get there. If so then the signals, if we follow now, these two lines, they're really like two separate keys are the two ends of this keyboard and you press one key and you activate the score. So you activate the sweet cells throughout your oral cavity. And they all converge into a group of Sweden neurons in the next station, which you see outside the brain is one of the tastes of ganglia. These are the neurons that Intervate your tongue and the oral cavity.

0 (46m 43s):
Where do they sit? Approximately? Are there some

2 (46m 45s):
There? Yeah,

0 (46m 45s):
Right here around the lymph nodes, more or less, you got

2 (46m 49s):
It. And, and there are two main ganglia that innovate the vast majority of old tastes, the bucks in their old coffee tea. And then from there that sweet signal goes onto the brainstem. The brainstem is the entry of the body into the brain. And there are different areas of the brain stem. And there are different groups of neurons in the brainstem. And this has unique area in a unique, a topographically defined it location in the rostral side of the brainstem that receives all of the tastes input,

0 (47m 33s):
A very dense area of the brain,

2 (47m 35s):
A very rich area of their brain. Exactly. And from there, the sweet signal goes to these other area higher up on the brainstem. And then he goes through a number of stations or that sweet signal goes from sweet neuron to sweet neuron, to Sweden neuron, to eventually get to your cortex. And once he gets through your tastes cortex, that's where it meaning is imposed into that signal. It's then, and only then this is what the data suggests that now you can identify these as a sweet steamy light.

0 (48m 21s):
And how quickly does that all happen

2 (48m 25s):
In, you know, the time scale of the nervous system it's fast. Yeah. And

0 (48m 31s):
Less than a second.

2 (48m 33s):
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah.

0 (48m 34s):
I rarely mistake bitter for sweet view, maybe with respect to people and my own poor judgment, but,

2 (48m 40s):
But no, you

0 (48m 41s):
Not with respect to taste. Yeah.

2 (48m 42s):
Yeah. It's and, and in fact, we can demonstrate this because we can stick electrodes at each of these stations, conceptually, and we can stimulate the tongue and then we can record the signals pretty much time log the stimulus delivery. You deliver the stimuli. And within a fraction of a second, you see now their response in this following stations. Now he gets to the cortex here. And now in there, you impose meaning to that taste. There is an area of your brain that represents the taste of sweet in taste cortex and a different area that represents the taste of bitter innocence.

2 (49m 27s):
There is a topographic map of these taste qualities inside your brain. Now we're going to do a thought experiment. All right. Now, if this group of neurons in your cortex really represents the sense of sweet and these add a different group of neurons in your brain represents the taste, the perception of bitter, then we should be able to do two things. First. I should be able to go into your brain, somehow, silence, those neurons, find a way to prevent them from being activated.

2 (50m 8s):
And I can give you all the sweet you want, and you'll never know that you're tasting sweet. And conversely, I should be able to go into your brain, come up with a way to activate those neurons. Well, I'm giving you absolutely nothing. And you're going to think that you're getting that full percept and that's precisely what we have done. And that's precisely what you get. These of course, is in the brain of mice.

0 (50m 39s):
But presumably in humans, it would work

2 (50m 42s):
Similarly the same zero though. I have not, no questions. So, so, so this taste to two important things, the first to the predetermined nature of the sense of taste, because it means I can go to this part of your brain in the absence of any stimuli and have you throw the full behavioral experience. In fact, when we activate in your cortex, these bitter neurons, the animal can start gagging, but it's drinking only water, but the anemone things, that's getting a bit of stimulus.

0 (51m 24s):
This is amazing.

2 (51m 25s):
And so on the second, just to finish the line so that it doesn't sound like it teaches two things. And then I only give you one lesson. It is that, you know, it's substance sheets, these, this capacity of the brain to segregate, to separate in, in these notes of action, the representation, or these two diametrically oppose for sips. Yeah. Which is sweet, for example, versus

0 (51m 55s):
The reason I say amazing. And that is also amazing is the following you told us earlier. And you're absolutely correct, of course that the end of the day, whether or not it's one group of neurons over here and another group of neurons over there, it's just the way it turns out to be electrical activity is the generic, common language of both sets of neurons. So that raises the question for me, of whether or not those separate sets of neurons are connected to areas of the brain that create this sense of valence or whether or not they're simply created connected, excuse me, two sets of neurons that evoke distinct behaviors of moving towards an inhaling more and licking or aversive are we essentially interpreting our behavior and our micro responses or our micro responses and our behaviors, the consequence of the person.

2 (52m 47s):
Excellent. Excellent question. So, so first the answer is they go into an area of the brain where valence is imposed, and that area is known as the amygdala and the suite neurons go to a different area than the bidder neurons. Now, I wouldn't do a thought experiment because I think your audience might appreciate this. Let's say I activate this group of neurons and the animal increases leaking and I'm activating the Sweden rooms. And so that's expected because now it's, you know, tasting these, this, this water as if it was sugar.

2 (53m 29s):
Now this is Moses transforming water into wine. In this case, we're going to spend into these Passover. So then is an appropriate, you know, example it, we're transforming it into, into sweet. Yeah. But how do I know, how do I know that activating them is evoking a positive feeling inside a goodness, a satisfaction, or I love it versus I'm yes. Increasingly keen, which is out of the Ultram because all we're seeing is that the animal is leaking more. And we're trying to infer that that means that he's feeling something really good versus, you know, what that piano line is going back straight into the tongue.

2 (54m 12s):
And all it's doing is forcing it to move faster. Well, we can actually separate these by doing experiments that allow us to fundamentally distinguish them and imagine the following experiment and want to take the animal. And then we're going to put them inside a box that has two sides. And the two sides have features that make them different. One has yellow little toys. The other one has green toys. One has little, you know, black stripes. The other one has blue stripes. So the animal can tell the two halves, I take the mouse, put them inside this arena, this play arena.

2 (54m 54s):
And he will explore and pots around both sides with equal frequency. And now what I'm going to do is I'm going to activate these neurons. The Sweden runs every time the animal is on the side with the yellow stripes. And if that is creating a positive internal state, what would the animal now want to do? It will want to stay on this side with the yellow stripes. There's no leaking here. The animal is not extending it strong every time I'm activating this neuron, okay.

2 (55m 37s):
This is known as a place preference test. And it's generally used as just one form of many different tests to them on street that the activation of a group of neurons in the brain is imposing. For example, a positive versus a negative valence. Whereas if I do the same thing by activating the bidder neurons, the animal will actively one now to stay away from the side where these neurons are being activated.

0 (56m 12s):
And that's precisely what you

2 (56m 14s):
See. And that's precisely what we see.

0 (56m 17s):
Many people, including myself, are familiar with the experience of going to a restaurant, eating a variety of foods. And then fortunately it doesn't happen that often, but then feeling very sick. I learned coming up in neuroscience that this is one strong example of one trial, learning that from that point on, it's not the restaurant or the waitress or the waiter or the date, but it's my notion of it had to have been the shrimp that leads me to then want to avoid shrimp in every context, maybe even shrimp powder. You got

2 (56m 53s):
It

0 (56m 53s):
For a very long time. I can imagine all the adapt evolutionarily adaptive reasons why this such a phenomenon would exist. Do we have any concept of where in this pathway?

2 (57m 4s):
We, we, we know actually a significant amount at, at, at, at a general level there, in fact, more than shrimp, oysters are even a more dramatic example, D one bad oyster, these old, you need to be driven that way for the next six months. Yes.

0 (57m 22s):
I think because of the texture alone is something that one learns to overcome. I actually really enjoy oysters. I despise mussels, despise shrimp, not the animal, but the taste and, and yet oysters, for some reason, I I'm yet to have a bad experience.

2 (57m 37s):
He's like only by the way, you know, texture is hard to get over, but once you get over, it's delicious.

0 (57m 43s):
That's what they tell me. We were both in San Diego at one point, and I I'll give a plug to sushi, OTAs, kind of the famous, and they have amazing hooning and I've, I've tried it twice. And I it's, I'm over to it. It's somehow the texture outweighs any kind of the deliciousness that people have.

2 (58m 0s):
It's a very acquired taste then Slade beer. You know, if you T I grew up in Chile, that's where the accent comes from in case anyone wonder. And, you know, by the time I came here to graduate school, I was 19 too old to be know, overcame my heavy Chilean accent. So here I am for the years, 50 years later, no quiet for the glass. We appreciate steel. The sound like a, yes, came off the boat, Joanne chili, you don't drink beer when you're young, you drink wine. You know, Chili's a huge wine producer. So when they came to the us, all of my classmates, you know, were drinking beer because they didn't know they had finished college where they were all, you know, if you're a drinking and, you know, graduate school, you're working 18 hours a day, every day, the way they, you know, relaxed, let's go and have some beers.

0 (58m 56s):
And beer is cheaper

2 (58m 57s):
And various cheap. And we were being clearly underpaid me. I, it, I couldn't do it. It's an acquired taste. It was too late by then. And here I am, you know, 60 plus. And if you take all of the beer, I've drank in my entire life, I would say they add two less than an eight ounce glass of water.

0 (59m 22s):
Impressive. Well, your health is probably better for it.

2 (59m 24s):
I'm not sure

0 (59m 26s):
Your physical health.

2 (59m 27s):
So, you know, it goes back to, you know, I've acquired taste these stick on next gen to Oni and two oysters. Now, going back to, to the one trial learning, you know, this is the great thing about our brains, certain things we need to repeat a hundred times to learn them a little operator. Can I have the phone number for sushi oughta, please? And then she'll give it to you over the phone, at least in the old days. And then you need to repeat it to yourself over and over and over, over the next minute. So you can die out sushi oughta, and five minutes later, it's gone. That's what we call working memory. Then there is the short term memory we park our car.

2 (1h 0m 11s):
I think we're lucky by the end of the day, we remember where it is. And then there is the long-term memory. We remember the birthdays of every one of our children for the rest of our lives. Well, there are events that a single event is so traumatic that it activates the circuits in a way that it's a one trial learning. And the taste system is literally at the top of that food chain. And there is a phenomenon known as conditioned taste aversion. You can pair an attractive stimuli with a really bad one, and you can make an animal begin to vehemently dislike for example, sugar.

2 (1h 1m 0s):
And that's because you've conditioned the animals to now be averse to these otherwise nice days because he's been associated with my lace. And when you do that, now you can begin to ask why does change in the signal as it travels from the tongue to the brain in a normal animal versus an animal where you have now transformed sweet from being attractive to being adversive. And this is the way now you begin to explore how the brain changes the nature of the quality, the meaning of a stimuli as a function of its state.

0 (1h 1m 44s):
I have a number of questions related to that. All of which relate to this idea of context, because you mentioned before that flavor is distinct from taste because flavor involves smell, texture, temperature, and some other features, sea urchin being a good example of, I can, I can sense the texture. It actually now I won't describe what it, what it reminds me of for various reasons, the ability to place context on into, to insert context into a perception, or rather to insert a perception into context is, is so powerful.

0 (1h 2m 24s):
And there's an element of kind of mystery about it. But if we start to think about some of the more nuance that we like to live at the edge, as you, as you say, how, how many different tastes on the taste dial to go back to your analogy earlier, the color dial, do you think that there could be for something as fixed as bitter? So for instance, I, I don't think I like bitter tastes, but I like some fermented foods that seem to have a little bit of sour and have a little bit of that briny flavor. How much plasticity do you think there is there and in particular across the lifespan, because I think one of the most salient examples of this is that kids don't seem to like certain vegetables, but they all are hardwired to like sweet tastes.

0 (1h 3m 11s):
And yet you could also imagine that one of the reasons why they may eventually grow to incorporate vegetables is because of some knowledge that vegetables might be good for you, better for them. So is there a change in the receptors, the distribution, the number of the sensitivity, et cetera, that can explain the transition from wanting to avoid vegetables, to being willing, to eat vegetables simply in childhood to early.

2 (1h 3m 37s):
So they want to take the question slightly differently, but I think it would illustrate the point and just illustrate. It used the difference between the olfactory system and the taste system to make the point taste system five basic palettes, sweet sour, bitter salt. Doesn't mind me. Each of them has a predetermined identity. We know exactly what the, and Bailyn's, these are attractive. These are adversive in the factory system. It's claimed that we can smell millions of different others yet, for the most part, none of them have an innate predetermined meaning in their factory system, meaning is imposed by learning an experience,

0 (1h 4m 26s):
Even the smell of smoke.

2 (1h 4m 28s):
So I'm going to give you, I'm going to make it differently. There are a handful of the millions of all those that were claimed that you could immediately tell me these are averse and these are attractive vomit. So vocally, it's not correct because I can assure you that there are cultures and societies where things which are far less appealing than vomit do not evoke. And diversity of reaction really, really sold for would be maybe a universal. I'm not talking pheromones. Pheromones are in a different category that trigger innate responses, but nearly every other east afforded meaning by learning and experience.

2 (1h 5m 14s):
And that's why you like broccoli and I, the spice broker Lee, because I remember my mother forcing me to eat broccoli. So same sensory experience. All right, these, these accommodates two important things. In the case of taste, you have neurons at every station that therefore sweet for sour, for bitter, for salty. I know Miami it's only five classes, so it's not going to take a lot of your brain. If we can, in fact, smell a million others, and everyone, those of others have to have predetermined, meaning there's not going to be enough brain. Yes. To accommodate that one sentence. And so evolution in his infinite wisdom evolve a system where you put together a pathway in the cortex of factory cortex here, where you have the capacity to associate every other in a specific context that now gives it the meaning.

2 (1h 6m 21s):
Now let's go back to the original question then. So other than clearly plastic mega plastic, because it's its fundamental basis and neural organization, but tastes, we just told you that Sienna predetermined hard wire, but predetermined hard wire doesn't mean that it's not modulated by learning or experience either only means that you are born liking sweet and disliking bitter. And we have many examples of plasticity beer being one example. So why, why do we learn to laugh? Beer in coffee is because it has an associated gain to this system and that gain to the system that positive valence that emerges out of that negative signal is sufficient to create that positive association.

2 (1h 7m 19s):
And in the case of beer, of course, these alcohol, the feeling good that we get after is more than sufficient to say. I want to have more of these. I mean, the case of coffee of course, is caffeine activating a whole group of neurotransmitter systems that give you the, that high associated with coffee. So yes, this taste system is changeable it's malleable and is subjected to learning and experience. But I like the factory system is restricted in what you could do with it because its goal is to allow you to get nutrients and survive.

2 (1h 7m 60s):
The goal of the olfactory system is very different, is being used, not in our case, by the, in every army mounted species to identify friend versus foe, do identify, made to identify ecological niches. They want to be in. So it plays a very broad role that then requires that he be set up organized and function in a very different type of context. Tasty is about, can we get the nutrients we need to survive? And can we ensure that we are attracted to the ones we need? And we averse to the ones that are going to kill us.

2 (1h 8m 43s):
I'm being overly simplistic and reductionist, but I think it illustrates it be a huge difference between these two chemo sensory system.

0 (1h 8m 51s):
I don't think it would be overly Simplicit. I think it illustrates the, the key intractable nature of this system and the way you've approached it. And I think it's important for people to hear that because everybody, as we are mystified with empathy and love, et cetera. So in fairness to that, I'm going to ask a sort of a high-level question or abstract question. This was based on a conversation I had with a former girlfriend where we talking about chemistry between individuals, very complicated topic on the one hand, but on the other hand, quite simple in that certain people, for whatever reason, evoke a tremendous sense of arousal, for lack of a better word between two people, one would hope at least for some period of time.

2 (1h 9m 43s):
And I didn't know what this was, that kind of a book.

0 (1h 9m 46s):
Well, the reason I, but this has to do with tastes because she said something I think in part to maybe irritate me a bit, but, but we were commenting not about our own experience of each other, but of someone that she was now very excited about we're on good terms. And she said, what do you think it is? This thing of chemistry. So maybe she was trying to, you know,

2 (1h 10m 13s):
Warren, you to

0 (1h 10m 14s):
Warn me what's coming. And she said, I have a feeling something about it is in smell and something about it is actually in taste, literally the taste of somebody's breath, that's the way she described it. And I thought that it was a very interesting example for a number of reasons, but in particular, because it gets to the merging of odor and taste. But also to the idea that, of course the context of a new relationship, I'm assuming that in fact, they're both attractive people, et cetera. There's a whole context there, but I've had the experience of the odor of somebody's breath being a Versive not because I could identify it as a Versive

2 (1h 10m 58s):
Because you're saying,

0 (1h 10m 59s):
Because it just didn't like

2 (1h 11m 1s):
<inaudible>, but that's because you associated with adding others that trigger that negative, you know, aversive reaction, by the way.

0 (1h 11m 17s):
Absolutely. There are certain things for humans to me that are aversive and there, there are other sense in PR can recall sense of, of skin of foods, et cetera, that are immensely appetitive. So I CA I've experienced both sides of this equation myself. And she was describing this end to me more than tasting wine, which is the typical example where people inhale it and then they drink it to me. This seems like something that more people might be able to relate to that certain things and people smell delicious, even mothers describing the smell of their babies.

2 (1h 11m 52s):
I mean our own babies, when they're next, that's the magic place, neck, the back of their neck. There you go. Oh my goodness. I have a grandchild now. So I know exactly what Rio that's his name smells like.

0 (1h 12m 6s):
Okay. So more beautiful examples. It's always more fun to think about the beautiful positive, the appetitive examples, the smell of the back of your grandson's neck. Yes. I mean, you couldn't, you could get more specific than that, but not a lot more. So what is going on in terms of the combination of odor and taste given that these two systems are so different? Yes.

2 (1h 12m 29s):
And, and they come together, ultimately there is a place in the brain where they come together to integrate the two into what we would call, you know, that sensory experience. And I'll tell you an experiment that you could do that demonstrates these. I think in, in, in, I think it's good for the, you know, for, for, for your audience, you have to get a sense of how we approach these problems so that we can get the, the meaningful scientific answers. So we know where the olfactory cortex is in the brain. We know where the tastes court exists in the brain. They're in two different places. We can go to each of these two core thesis, foot, corner traces.

2 (1h 13m 16s):
We put greening one, we put written there and we see where the colors go to. That's a reflection of where those neurons are projection or predicting tool into their next targets. Once they get the signal, where do they send the signal to? And then we reason that the other and tastes come together somewhere in the brain. We should find an area that now it's getting red and green color. And we found such an area. And next we anticipated. We decide that maybe this is the area in the brain of the mouse corresponding area, in the brain of humans that integrates other and taste.

2 (1h 14m 3s):
It's known this, the term normally use is multisensory integration. And if this is true, we could do the following experiment. We can train the mouse to lik sweet. And if they guessed correctly, that that is supposed to be sweet. They should go now to the right port, to the right site, to get a water reward. If they go to the left, when the west suite, then they're incorrect and they get no reward and they actually get that timeout.

2 (1h 14m 45s):
Now the mice are Thursday. So they're very motivated to perform. And if you repeat these task a hundred times, a hundred trials, incredibly. Now these animals learn to recognize the suite and execute the right action. And by their action, we now are being told what that animal is tasting. We can make it more interesting and we can give him sweet and bitter and savory sweet go to the right. And he's bitter go to the left. And after you train them, these mice with 90% accuracy will tell you when you run the mice, now they stimulate what was sweet and what wasn't bitter.

2 (1h 15m 24s):
All right. We can now do the same experiment, but now Meek's tastes with other and say, if you got other along, go to the right or push this lever in mice, if you get tastes alone, go to these other part or push these other liver. And if you get the two together, do the something else. And if you train the mice, the mice are able now to report back to you when he's sensing tastes alone or they're alone, or the mix makes sense, makes sense.

2 (1h 16m 7s):
Now, we can go to the brain of these mice and go to this area that we now uncover discover as being the side of multisensory integration between taste and odor and silence. It prevented from being activated experimentally. And if that area really represented the integration of these two, the animals should still be able to recognize the taste alone. They still should be able to recognize the other alone, but should be in capable now to recognize the mix and exactly as predicted.

2 (1h 16m 47s):
That's exactly what you get. All right.

0 (1h 16m 50s):
The brain is basically a series of engineered circuits complex.

2 (1h 16m 56s):
You got it. And our task AC not to figure out how can we scratch, you know, these amazing architecture of these circuits in a way that we can to uncover the mysteries, you know, of the brain

0 (1h 17m 13s):
And why certain people's breath tastes so good and other people's not so good.

2 (1h 17m 19s):
So I never answered that, but I told you how we can figure out where in the brain is happening. Okay.

0 (1h 17m 26s):
As we've been having this discussion, I thought a few times about similarities to the visual system or differences to the visual system, the visual system. There are a couple of phenomenon that I wonder if they also exist in the taste system and the visual system. We know for instance, that if you look at something long enough and activate the given receptors long enough, that object will actually disappear. We offset this with little microwave movements, et cetera, but the principle is a fundamental one. This habituation or desensitization, everyone seems to call it something different, but you get the idea. Of course, in the taste system, I'm certainly familiar with eating something very, very sweet for the first time in a long time.

0 (1h 18m 8s):
And it feels, tastes very sweet, but a few more licks, a few more bites, and now it tastes not as sweet with olfaction. I'm familiar with the odor in a room. I don't like her. I like, and then it disappearing. So similar phenomenon, where does that occur? And can you imagine a sort of a system by which people could leverage that? Because I do think that most people are interested in eating, not more sugar, but less sugar.

2 (1h 18m 38s):
I think we have better ways to approach that. Then we can transition them from taste into these other circuits that makes sugar so extraordinarily impossible not to consume

0 (1h 18m 55s):
Impossible.

2 (1h 18m 55s):
Exactly. Normally so worried that these, these, the sensitizing happens, that's the term that we use it. And it's, I think it happening at multiple stations, it's happening at the receptor level. I E the cells in your tongue that are sensing that sugar, as you activate these receptor and it's triggering activity after activity, after activity, eventually you exhaust the receptor. Again, I'm using terms which are extraordinarily loose, but for

0 (1h 19m 35s):
Sake of this discussion,

2 (1h 19m 36s):
The sake of this discussion, their receptor gets to a point where he undergoes a set of changes, chemical changes, where it now signals far less efficiently, or even gets removed from the surface of the cell. And now what will happen is that the same amount of sugar will trigger far less of our response. And that is a huge side of this. And then the next, I believe is the integrated again, loss of signaling that happens by continuous activation of the circuit at each of these different neural stations.

2 (1h 20m 21s):
You know, there is from the tongue to the ganglia, from the ganglia to the first station in the brainstem, a second station in the brainstem to the thalamus then to the cortex. So there are multiple steps that this signal is traveling. Now, you might say why this is a label line. Why do you need to have so many stations? And that's because the taste system is so important to ensure that you get what you need to survive. That he has to be subjected to modulation by the internal state. And each of these nodes provides a new site to give it plasticity and modulation none necessarily to change the way that something tastes, but to ensure that you consume more or less of different or differently of what you need, I'm going to give you one example of, of, of how the internal state changes.

2 (1h 21m 17s):
The way the taste system works sold. He's very repetitive at low concentrations, and that's because we need it. It's our electrolyte balance requires Sol every one of their neurons uses solid as the most important of the ions, you know, with potassium to ensure that you can transfer these electrical signals within and between neurons by that high concentrations, let's say ocean water, he's incredibly ever received. And we all know these because we're going through the ocean. And then when you get in your mouth, it's not that great.

2 (1h 21m 58s):
However, if I sold deprive you, and we can do this in, in experimental models by readily it. Now these incredibly high concentration of salt, one molar, sodium chloride becomes amazingly repetitive and attractive. What's going on in here. Your Tony's telling you, this is horrible, but your brain is telling you, I don't care. You need it. And this is what we call the modulation of the taste system by the internal state.

2 (1h 22m 38s):
And presumably if one is hungry enough, even only will taste good just right on the money. No, no, this is exactly correct. Or if you're thirsty and hungry, you suppress hunger so that you don't waste water molecules in digesting food. Why? Because if you're thirsty and you have no water, you will die within a week or so, but you can on a hunger strike as long as you have water for months, because you're going to eat up all your energy reserves. Water is a different story. So you could see, or, or, or th th th there are multiple layers at which the taste system that guides, you know, our drive and our motivation to consume the nutrients we need has to be modulated in response to the internal state.

2 (1h 23m 36s):
And of course, internal Sadie itself has to be more regulated by the external world. And so that I think is a reason why, what could otherwise, we would have been an incredibly simple system from the tongue to the cortex in one, yes, the wire. It's not because you have to ensure that, you know, each step you give the system that level of flexibility or what we call in neuroscience, plasticity.

0 (1h 24m 5s):
I think we're headed into the gut, but I have a question that has just been on my mind for a bit now, because I was drinking this water. And it has essentially no taste. Yes. Is there any kind of signal for the absence of taste despite having something in the mouth and here is why I ask what I'm thinking about is saliva. And while it's true, that if I eat a lot of very highly palatable foods, that does change how I experience more bland foods, I must confess when I eat a lot of these highly processed foods, I don't particularly like them. I tend to crave healthier foods, but that's probably for contextual reasons about nutrients, et cetera.

0 (1h 24m 48s):
But I could imagine an experiment where

2 (1h 24m 51s):
You see a taste of no taste,

0 (1h 24m 52s):
Right? Is there a taste of no taste because in the visual system, there is right. You close the eyes and you start getting increases in activity in the visual system, as opposed to decreases, which often surprises people. But there are reasons for that because everything is about signal to noise, signal to background. And

2 (1h 25m 8s):
It's a good question. I can tell you that most of our work is trying to focus on how the taste system works, not how it doesn't work. Well.

0 (1h 25m 18s):
No, no, yes. We know. I know you're being playful. And I knew when inviting you here to now setting myself up for, I actually own an on a, on a different, we're trying

2 (1h 25m 26s):
To learn things I know,

0 (1h 25m 28s):
Right? Listen, I was weaned in this system of, and I'll say it here for the second time. Actually I recorded a podcast recently with a very prominent podcast at Lex Friedman podcasts. And I made reference to the so-called New York neuroscience mafia. I won't say whether or not we are sitting in the presence of the New York neuroscience mafia member, but in any event, I know the sorts of living that they provide for those listening. This is the kind of hazing that happens, but Netherland, hazing in academia, I'm the target.

2 (1h 25m 58s):
Of course, it's, it's, it's a

0 (1h 26m 0s):
Sign of love.

2 (1h 26m 1s):
Exactly.

0 (1h 26m 1s):
Is going to tell me that

2 (1h 26m 3s):
It's always about the science in there. Right? Interesting question. Look, I am, I don't know the answer and I don't even know how I would explore it in a way that you will rigorously teach me it, but

0 (1h 26m 26s):
W let me tell you why I'm asking you, and then I'll offer an experiment that I'd love to see someone in here to do. I'm thinking about saliva. Yes,

2 (1h 26m 34s):
No, no, no, but that we know that we can figure it out,

0 (1h 26m 37s):
But the question is whether or not the saliva in a fed state is distinct from the saliva in an unfed state, such that it modulator eats the sensitive that

2 (1h 26m 50s):
Experiment has been done,

0 (1h 26m 51s):
Though. It has been done. And so the answer is no.

2 (1h 26m 53s):
Yeah. And then the way you could do the experiment is because we use artificial saliva.

0 (1h 26m 58s):
There's such a thing. I know there's artificial tears.

2 (1h 27m 2s):
No, no, we, I don't mean that you go to Walgreens that you get, I mean, we might love oratory. We know the composition of saliva, and so you can make such a thing and, and, and, and you can take, you know, taste cells in culture or in a Chong where you wash it out and then you can apply artificial saliva. And what happens. He said, the system has been engineered to desensitize to become a diagnostic for saliva to become invisible there. And there is no difference on the state of the animal, right?

0 (1h 27m 41s):
Well, this is the reason to do experiments. So it doesn't defeat any grand hypothesis. It's just pure curiosity. So,

2 (1h 27m 48s):
You know, that curiosity killed the cat. I do,

0 (1h 27m 54s):
But saves the career of a scientist every single

2 (1h 27m 59s):
Time,

0 (1h 27m 59s):
Every

2 (1h 27m 60s):
Single story of our lives. Exactly.

0 (1h 28m 2s):
Okay. So if it's not saliva and apparently it is not. What about internal state and what aspects of this internal mill you are relevant because there's autonomic, there's a sleep and awake. There's stress. One of the questions that I, I got from hundreds of people when I solicited questions in advance of this episode was why do I crave sugar when I'm stressed, for instance, and that could be contextual, but what are the basic things?

2 (1h 28m 29s):
Because it makes us feel good, by the way, we'll get to that answer sooner. It activates a, what I'm willing to generically refer to as reward pleasure centers in a way that it dramatically changes our internal state. This is, you know, why do we eat a gallon of ice cream when we're very depressed? In fact, this is a good segue to go into the, into, into this an entirely different world. Yeah. Eh, of, of the body telling your brain what you need in, in, in, in, in important things like sugar and fat.

2 (1h 29m 11s):
Yeah. Okay. But anyways, go ahead. You were going to ask something.

0 (1h 29m 14s):
Well, no, I, I would like to discuss the most basic elements of internal state in particular, the ones that are below our conscious detection. And this is a, of course, as a segue into this incredible landscape, which is the gut brain axis, which I think 15 years ago was almost a, maybe it was a posters at a meeting. And then now I believe you, you and others, there are companies, there have companies, there are active research programs, there's and beautiful work. Maybe you could describe some of that work that you and others have been involved in.

0 (1h 29m 54s):
And a lot of the listeners of this podcast will have heard of the gut-brain axis. And there are a lot of misconceptions about the gut-brain axis. Many people think that this means that we think with our stomach because of the quote unquote gut feeling aspect, but I'd love for you to talk about the aspects of gut brain signaling that drive our PR or change our perceptions and behaviors that are completely beneath our awareness.

2 (1h 30m 19s):
Yes. Excellent. So let me begin maybe by, by stating that, you know, the brain needs to monitor the state of every one of our orphans Oregon's eat, it has to do it. This is the only way that the brain can ensure that every one of those organs are working together in a way that we have healthy physiology. Now, these monitoring of the brain has been known for a long time, but I think what hadn't been fully appreciated that this is a two way highway where the brain needs not only monitoring, but it's now modulating back what the body needs to do.

2 (1h 31m 11s):
And that includes all the way from monitoring the frequency of heartbeats and the way that inspiration and aspirations in the breathing cycle operate to what happens when you ingest sugar and fat. Now, let me give you an example again, of, of a, oh, how the brain can take what we would refer to contextual associations and transforming into incredible changes in physiology and metabolism.

2 (1h 31m 53s):
And that remember Pablo so Pavlov in these classical experiments in conditioning, you know, associated with, he would take a bell. It would ring the bell every time he was going to feed the dog. And eventually the dog learned to associate the ringing of the bell with food coming. Now, the first incredible finding Mav is the fact that the dog now in the presence of the bell alone will start to salivate. And we will call that, you know, neurologically speaking an anticipatory response.

2 (1h 32m 34s):
Okay. I could understand it. I get it. You know, neurons in the brain that formed that association now represent foodies coming. And they're sending a signal to motor neurons to go into your salivary glands, to squeeze them. So you release, you know, in our saliva because you know, food is coming, but what's even more remarkable is that those animals are also releasing insulin in response to a bell. Okay. This illustrates one part of these two way, highway the highway, going down, somehow the brain created these associations and there are neurons in your brain now that no food is coming and send a signal somehow all the way down to your pancreas.

2 (1h 33m 27s):
Then now it says release insulin because sugar is coming down. All right. This goes back to the magic of the brain. You know, it's a never ending source of both joy and intrigue. How the hell do they do these? Okay. I mean, the neurons, it, no,

0 (1h 33m 45s):
I share. I share your delight and fascination. There's not a day or a lecture or some talks are better than others or where I don't sit back and just think it's absolutely somebody.

2 (1h 34m 1s):
And then over the past, I know a dozen years with great force over the last five years. Now, the main highway that is communicating the state of the body with the brain, it has been uncover as been what we now refer to as the gut brain axis and the highway, he says, specific bundle of nerves, you know, wish it Maorish from the Vegas ganglia. They know those ganglia. And so he's the Vegas nearer that it's, innervating the majority Dio of the organs in your body.

2 (1h 34m 42s):
It's monitoring their function, sending a signal to the brain. And now the brain going back down and saying, this is going all right, do this, or this is not going to well do that.

0 (1h 34m 56s):
And I should point out as will know, every Oregon spleen, pancreas,

2 (1h 35m 2s):
They all must be monitored. Other in fact, you know, I, now I have no doubt that the CSUs that we have dermally associated with metabolism, physiology, and even immunity are likely to emerge as deceases conditions, states of the brain. I don't think obesity is a disease of metabolism. I believe obesity is a disease of brain surrogates

0 (1h 35m 36s):
I do as well.

2 (1h 35m 38s):
And so, and so these, this, this view that we have, you know, been working on for the longest time, because, you know, the molecules that we're dealing with are in the body, not in the head, you know, let us to, you know, to view, of course these issues and problems has been one of metabolism and physiology and so forth. They remain to be the carriers of the ultimate signal, but the brain ultimately appears to be the conductor of this orchestra of physiology and metabolism. All right, now let's go to the gut brain and sugar. May we

0 (1h 36m 19s):
Please, Please? You know, I, I mean, th the, the Vegas nerve has in popular culture has been kind of converted into this single meaning of calming pathways, mostly because I actually have to tip my hat to the yoga community was among the first to talk about Vegas on and on and on it, there are calming pathways that have, you know, so-called parasympathetic pathways within the Vegas. But I think that the more we learn about the Vegas, the more, it seems like an entire set of neural connections as opposed to one nerve. I just wanted to just mention that because I think a lot of people have heard about the Vegas.

0 (1h 37m 2s):
It turns out experimentally in the laboratory, many neuroscientists will stimulate the Vegas to create states of alertness and arousal when animals, or even people believe it or not are close to dying or going into coma stimulation of the Vegas is one of the ways to wake up to the brain counter to the idea that it's just this eye way of calming oneself down.

2 (1h 37m 22s):
I know also, of course, I mean, what, when that's to be cautious there in that. So the, the, the, the Vegas nerve is made out of many thousands of fibers, you know, individual fibers that make these gigantic bundle. And it's likely as we're speaking, that each of these fibers carries a slightly different meaning. They're not necessarily one by one, maybe five fivers <inaudible>, but they carry meaning that's associated their specific task. This group of fibers is telling the brain about the state of your heart.

2 (1h 38m 4s):
This group of fiber is still in the brain about the state of your gut. This is telling your brain about its nutritional state, this, your pancreas, this your landings, and they are again, do make these same simple example. The keys of the spear. Now, yes, you're right. There is a lot of data showing that activating the entire Vago bundle has very meaningful effects in a wide range of conditions. In fact, it's being used to treat untractable depression, those stimulator epileptic seizures.

2 (1h 38m 56s):
But again, there are thousands of fibers carrying different functions. So to some degree in a, this is like turning the lights on the stadium, because you need to eliminate where you lost your keys under your seat, yet 10,000 balls of a thousand Watts. Each of yes, come on. Only one of these is pointing to work. And so I'm lucky enough that one of them happened to point to my site.

2 (1h 39m 37s):
So here you activated the bundle thousands of fibers. I'm lucky enough that some of those having to do something to make a meaningful difference in depression, or to make a meaningful difference in epileptic, but it should not be misconstrue as arguing that this broad activation as any type of selectivity or specificity we're yes, lucky enough, that among all the things that are being done, some of those have been to change the biology of these processes. Now, the reason this is relevant, because the magic of this gut-brain axis is the fact that you have these thousands of fibers, really doing different functions and our goal.

2 (1h 40m 30s):
And along with many other great, you know, scientists, it, including Steve liberalist, that started a lot of, you know, this molecular dissection on this vague gut brain communication line at Harvard is trying to uncover why there each of those doing, what are each of those keys of these piano playing?

0 (1h 40m 59s):
What's the latest there? Just as a brief update, I know, see evenly relieves think I was there when he got his Howard Hughes and I did not. So that was fun. Always great to get beat by. Excellent.

2 (1h 41m 10s):
Well, first of all, I'm happy you didn't, because that way you can focus on these amazing podcasts.

0 (1h 41m 16s):
That's very gracious of you. It's always feels better. It's not good to get beat out by excellent people. Steven Steven is in is, is second to none. And he is defining, as you said, the molecular constituents of different elements of these many, many fibers, is there an update there, or are they finding multiple parallel pathways?

2 (1h 41m 37s):
They are, they are sums that control heartbeat. Some that control the respiratory cycle. Some that might be involved in a guest's streak movement. You know, this notion that you are full and you feel full in part because your gut gets distended your stomach, for example. And then there are little sensors that are reading that and telling the brain you're full. Yeah.

0 (1h 42m 7s):
So the textbooks will soon change on the basis of the LIBOR LEAs. In other words,

2 (1h 42m 12s):
He, in essence, I think we are learning enough about this, this, this lines. Yeah. It, that could really help put together this, this holistic view. Oh, you know how the brain it's truly changing body physiology, metabolism, and immunity, the bar that hasn't been yet developed, and that it needs a fair amount of work by the it's an exciting thrilling, you know, the journey of discovery is how the signal comes back to now change that biology. You know, the example I gave you before with Pavlov's dog.

2 (1h 42m 55s):
Yeah. Alright. I figure out, you know, how the association created this link between the bell, but then how does the brain tell the pancreas to release in the right amount of insulin? Okay. So tell me, tell me, let me tell you about the gut brain axis and our insatiable appetite for sugar and fat insatiable for sugar and queen shovel for fat. And this is a story about the fundamental difference between liking and wanting, liking sugar.

2 (1h 43m 45s):
He's the function of the taste system I need. It's not really liking is liking sweet one Dean sugar, our never ending appetite for sugar. He's the story of the gut brain axis, liking versus wanting. And this work is work about my own laboratory. No, that began long ago when we discovered the sweet receptors and you can now engineer mice, that lack these receptors.

2 (1h 44m 27s):
So in essence, these animals will be unable to taste sweet. I life without sweetness. Oh, horrible. And if you gave a normal mouse, a bottle containing sweet, and we're going to put either sugar or an artificial sweetener, all right. They bought her sweet. They have slightly different tastes, but that simply because artificial sweeteners have some off tastes. But as far as the sweet receptor is concerned, they both activate the same receptor, triggered the same signal. And if you even 90 mile an option of a bottle containing sugar or a sweetener versus water, these animals will drink 10 to one from the bottle containing sweet.

2 (1h 45m 18s):
That's the taste system animal goes samples, each one, leaks a couple of leaks and then says, oh, that's the one they won because it's repetitive. And because I love it

0 (1h 45m 28s):
Too. It prefers sugar to artificial sweeteners.

2 (1h 45m 30s):
No, no, no, no. These experiment, this experiment. And when they put only Sweden one bottle and he could be either sugar or artificial sweeteners, that's a matter of which one. Okay. We're going to do the next experiment where we separate those two for now is sweet versus water. Okay. And sweet means sweep, not sugar. Sweet means anything that tastes sweet and sugar is one example. And Splenda is another example.

0 (1h 46m 0s):
Aspartame, monk, fruit Stevia, doesn't matter.

2 (1h 46m 4s):
Yeah. I mean, there are some that only humans can taste. Mice can not taste because their receptors between humans and mice are different, but we have put the human receptor into mice. We engineer mice and we completely humanize this mouse is taste world. All right. But for the purpose of this conversation, we're only comparing sweet versus water, an option. My goodness. They will leak to know in, in the form of the sweet side, 10 to one, at least versus the water. Make sense. All right, now we're going to take the mice and we're going to genetically engineer it to remove the sweet receptors.

2 (1h 46m 51s):
So these mice no longer have in their oral cavity, any sensors that can detect sweetness, be the sugar molecule, bead and artificial sweetener with anything else in taste sweet. I need to give these mice an option between sweet versus water, sugar versus water artificial. Two numbers is water. It will drink equally well from both because he cannot tell them apart because it doesn't have the receptors for sweet. So that sweet bottle tastes. Yes. Like water makes sense. Makes sense. Very good. Now we're going to do the experiment with sugar from now on let's focus on sugar. So I'm going to give them a wholesale sugar versus water.

2 (1h 47m 35s):
Normal mouse would drink from the sugar, sugar, sugar, sugar, very little from the water, no cow, the sweet receptors eliminate them. I was can no longer tell them apart. And they will drink from both. But if I keep the mouse in that cage for the next 48 hours, something extraordinary happens when they come for the eight hours later. And I see what the mouse is leaking or drinking from the mouse is drinking almost exclusively from the sugar puzzle. How could this be? He cannot not taste. It. Doesn't have a sweet receptors during those 48 hours.

2 (1h 48m 19s):
The mouse learn that there is something in that bottle that makes me feel good. And that is the bottle I want to consume. Now, how does the mouse identify that bottle? It does. So by using the other sensory features the smell of the bottle, the texture of the solution, insight sugar, the high concentrations is kind of goopy the sidedness in which the bottle is in the cage. It doesn't matter what, but the mouse realized there is something there that makes me feel good and that's what they want.

2 (1h 49m 1s):
And that is the fundamental basis or our unquenchable desire and our craving for sugar and east mediated by the gut brain axis. The first rule is that it takes a long time to develop immediately suggesting a post ingestive effect. So we recently, if this is true and it's the gut brain axis, that's driving sugar preference. Then there should be a group of neurons in the brain that are responding to post ingestive sugar and low and behold, we identify a group of neurons in the brain that that's this and these neurons received their input.

2 (1h 49m 50s):
They rectally from the gut brain axis

0 (1h 49m 55s):
From other neurons.

2 (1h 49m 56s):
You got it. And so what's happening is that sugar is recognized normally by the tongue activation, that pity, that response. Now you ingested, and now you activate a selective group of cells in your intestines that now send a signal to the brain via the Vega ganglion that says, I got what I need the tongue. That's it know that you got what you need. It only knows that you tasted it. This knows that you got to the point that it's going to be used, which is the gut.

2 (1h 50m 38s):
And now he sends the signal to now reinforce the consumption of this thing, because this is the one that they need it. Sugar source of energy.

0 (1h 50m 49s):
And is, are these neurons in the gut?

2 (1h 50m 52s):
So these are not neurons. And they got, so these are gut cells that recognize the sugar Malique use, send a signal, and that signal is received by the Vegas neuron. They directly got

0 (1h 51m 3s):
It.

2 (1h 51m 3s):
And the sends a signal through the gut brain access to the cell bodies of these neurons in the vagal ganglia, and from there to the brainstem to now trigger the preference for sugar,

0 (1h 51m 19s):
Two questions. One, you mentioned that these cells that detect sugar within the gut are actually within the intestine. You didn't say stomach, which surprised me. I always think gut as stomach.

2 (1h 51m 31s):
Well, interesting. Interesting, because that's where all the absorption happens. So you won the signal. You see, you want the brain to know that you had successful ingestion and break down of whatever you consume into the building blocks of life and, you know, glucose, amino, acids, fatty. And so you want to make sure that once they are in the form, that the intestines can now absorb them is where you get the signal back saying, this is what I want. Okay. Now let me just take it one step further. And this now sugar molecules activates these unique gut brain circuit that now drives the development of our preference for sugar.

2 (1h 52m 21s):
Now, a key element of this circuit, he said, the sensors in the gut that recognize the sugar, do not recognize artificial sweeteners at all

0 (1h 52m 34s):
Because of their nutrient value is uncoupled from the taste.

2 (1h 52m 40s):
Generically speaking one can make that buy this because it's a very different type of receptor. It turns out that it's not the tongue receptors being used in the gut is a completely different molecule that only recognizes the glucose molecule, not artificial sweeteners. These as a profound impact on the effect of ultimately artificial sweeteners in curbing our appetite, our craving, our insatiable desire for sugar, since they don't activate the gut brain axis, they'll never set these fight the craving for sugar like sugar.

2 (1h 53m 25s):
This and the reason I believe that artificial sweeteners are failing the market to curve our appetite. Our need, our desire for sugar is because they beautifully work on the tongue, the liking to recognize sweet versus non sweet, but they fell to activate the key sensors in the gap that now inform the brain. You got sugar, no need to crave anymore.

0 (1h 54m 3s):
So the, the issue of wanting, yes, can we relate that to a particular set of neurochemicals upstream? So the pathway is the so glucose is activating the cells in the gut that through the Vegas, that's communicated through the presumably the NoDoz ganglion and up into the brainstem. Very

2 (1h 54m 22s):
Good. And from there, where does it go?

0 (1h 54m 24s):
Where is it going? What is the substrate of wanting? I, I, you know, of course I think molecules like dopamine craving, there's a boat even called the molecule of more, et cetera, et cetera. Dopamine is a very diabolical molecule, as you know, because it evokes both a sense of pleasure ish, but also a sense of desiring more of craving. So if I understand you correctly, artificial sweeteners are, and I agree are failing as a means to satisfy sugar craving at the level of nutrient sensing. And yet if we trigger this true sugar evoked wanting pathway too much, and we've all experienced this, then we eat sugar and we find ourselves wanting more and more sugar.

0 (1h 55m 11s):
Now that could also be insulin dysregulation, but can we uncouple those? Yeah.

2 (1h 55m 16s):
I mean, look, we have a mega problem with over consumption of sugar and fat, and we're facing a unique time in our evolution where the cc's of malnutrition are due to over nutrition. I mean, how nuts is that here? I mean, historically diseases of malnutrition have always been linked to under their nutrition. And so we need to come up with strategies that can meaningfully change the activation of these circuits that control our wanting certainly in the populations at risk and these gut brain circuit that ultimately, you know, it's the lines of communication that are informing the brain, the presence of intestinal sugar.

2 (1h 56m 28s):
In this example, it's a very important target in the way we think about, is there a way that we can meaningfully modulate the circuits? So I make your brain think that you got satisfied with sugar, even though I'm not giving you sugar.

0 (1h 56m 48s):
So that immediately raises the question are the receptors for glucose in these gut cells susceptible to other things that are healthier for us.

2 (1h 56m 59s):
Very good, excellent idea. And I think an important goal will be to come up with a strategy and identify those very means that allow us to modulate the circuits in a way that certainly for all of those, where this is a big issue, he can really have a dramatic impact in improving human health.

0 (1h 57m 29s):
I could be wrong about this, and I'm happy to be wrong. I'm often wrong and told I'm wrong that we have cells within our gut. That don't just sense sugar, glucose, which to be specific, but also cells within our gut that sends amino acids and fatty acids. I could imagine a scenario where one could train themselves to feel an immense amounts of satiety from the consumption of foods that are rich in essential fatty acids, amino acids, perhaps less caloric or less insulin dysregulating than sugar.

0 (1h 58m 8s):
I'll use myself as an example. I've always enjoyed sweets, but in the last few years, for some reason I've started to lose my appetite for them probably because I just don't eat them anymore. At first that took some restriction. Now I just don't even think about it.

2 (1h 58m 22s):
Yeah. And you're not reinforcing the circuits. And so you in essence are removing yourself from, but you tend to be the exception in a, we have a, a huge, a huge, incredible large number of people that are being continuously exposed, highly processed foods. Yeah.

0 (1h 58m 44s):
And hidden that so-called hidden sugars

2 (1h 58m 46s):
That they don't even have to be Haven. You know, it's right there

0 (1h 58m 50s):
Hiding in plain sight. Yeah. I agree so much is made of hidden sugars that we often overlooked that they are, there are also the overt.

2 (1h 58m 59s):
Yeah. I mean, we can have a long discussion on the importance of coming up with strategies, you know, that could meaningfully change public health when it comes to nutrition. But one of, yes, we'll go back to the notion of, you know, these brain centers that are ultimately the ones that are being activated by these essential nutrients. So sugar, fat and amino acids are building blocks of our diets. And this is across all animal species. So it's not unreasonable then to assume that dedicated brain circuits would have evolved to ensure their recognition there ingestion and the reinforcement that that is where they need.

2 (1h 59m 59s):
And indeed, you know, animals evolve the stool systems. One is the taste system that allows you to recognize them and trigger these predetermined hardwire immediate responses. Yes. Oh my goodness. This is tastes so good. They're so sweet. I personally have a sweet tooth, my eyes and you know, oh my God, this is so delicious. Is fatty or umami recognizing the amino acids. So that's the liking pathway, but in the wisdom of evolution, that's good, but doesn't quite do it.

2 (2h 0m 42s):
You want to make sure that these things get to the place where they're needed and there are not needed in your tongue. There are needed in your intestines where they are going to be absorbed as the nutrients that will support life and the brain ones to know this and the ones who know it in a way that he can now form the association between that, that I, yes, tasted what got worried, needs to be. And he makes me feel good. And so now next time that I have to choose, what should I eat?

2 (2h 1m 27s):
That association now guides me to, that's the one I want. I want that fruit, not that fruit. I won dos leaves, not dos leaves because these are the ones that activate the right circuits that ensure that the right nutrients got to the right place and told the brain, this is what I want a neat, are we on? We're

0 (2h 1m 55s):
On one thing that intrigues me and puzzles me is that this effect took a couple of days, at least in mice. Yes. And the sensation, sorry. The perception of taste

2 (2h 2m 6s):
Is

0 (2h 2m 7s):
Immediate is immediate. And yet this is a slow system. And so in a beautiful way, but in a kind of mysterious way, the wine is able to couple the taste of a sweet drink with the experience of nutrient extraction and the gut under a context where the mouse and the human is presumably ingesting other things, smelling other mice, smelling other people. That's incredible.

2 (2h 2m 31s):
Yeah. But you have to think of it. Not as, as humans, remember we inherited the circuits of our ancestors and they through evolutionary from their ancestors. And we haven't had that mainly, you know, years to have fundamentally change in many of these hard-wired circuits. So forget us humans. Let's look at a new mouse in the wild. Okay. Which is easier now to comprehend the logic. You know, why should this take a long time of continued reinforcement given that I can taste it in a second?

2 (2h 3m 14s):
You want to make sure that these source of sugar, for example, in the wild is the base is the riches is the one where I get the most energy for the least amount of extraction, the least amount of work. I want to identify rich sources of sugar. And if the system simply responds immediately to the first sugar that gets to your gut, you're going to form the association. We, those sources of food, which are not the ones that you should be eaten from

0 (2h 3m 53s):
Don't fall in love with the first person you encounter.

2 (2h 3m 55s):
Oh my goodness, exactly. And so evolutionarily by having the taste system, giving you the immediate recognition, but then by forcing these gut brain axis to reinforce it only when sustain, you know, repeated exposure has informed the brain. This is the one you don't want to form the association before. And so, you know, when we move it from the context of, we know we, yes, go to the supermarket, we're not hunting there in the wild where I need to forum.

2 (2h 4m 36s):
And so what's happening is that highly processed foods are hijacking. You know, co-opting the circuits in a way that would have never happened in nature. And then we not only find these things up, appetitive unpalatable, but in addition, we are continuously reinforcing, you know, the wanting in a way that, oh my God, this is so great. What do I feel like eating? Let me have more of this.

0 (2h 5m 8s):
We've just forever changed the way that I think about supermarkets and restaurants, there are understanding this fast signaling in this slower signaling and the utility of having both makes me realize that supermarkets and restaurants are about the most unnatural thing for our system ever. Almost almost the equivalent of living in small villages with very few suitable mates versus online dating. For instance,

2 (2h 5m 36s):
I'm not going to make a judgment call there because they do serve an important purpose.

0 (2h 5m 40s):
I like restaurants.

2 (2h 5m 42s):
And so the supermarkets thing got it. I think there are not the culprits. Yeah. I think the culprits, of course, you know, our, our, our, our, our reliance on, on foods that are not necessarily healthy now, going back to the supermarket, they don't fall in love with the first they need to work. You know, you take, you, you take a Tangerine and you take an extract of Tangerine.

2 (2h 6m 23s):
The, you used to cook that spike, let's say with sugar and you equalize in both where they both provide the same amount of calories. If you eat them both, they're going to have a very different effect in your gut brain axis on your system. Once you make the extra and you process it, then you added processed sugar, you know, to use it now to cook, to add, to make it really sweet Tangerine thing. Now you're providing now a fully ready to use broken down source of sugar in the Tangerine that sugar it's mix in the complexity of a whole set of the chemical components, fiver long chains of sugar molecules that need a huge amount of work by your stomach, your gut system, to break it down.

2 (2h 7m 29s):
So you're using a huge amount of energy to extract energy and the balance it's very different. Then when I take these process, highly extracted Tangerine, by the way I use tangerines because I had a Tangerine, yes. Before I came in,

0 (2h 7m 50s):
They're delicious. They are delicious.

2 (2h 7m 54s):
And so, and so this goes back to the issue of supermarkets. And so to, to, to some degree, you know, a, given a choice, you don't want to eat processed highly processed foods, because everything already been broken down for you. And so your assistant has no work. And so you are, co-opting hijacking the circuits in a way that they are being activated at a timescale that normally wouldn't happen.

0 (2h 8m 22s):
Well, this is why I, I often feel that. And I think a lot of data are now starting to support the idea that while indeed the laws of thermodynamics apply calories, ingested versus calories, burned is a very real thing, right? That the appetite for certain foods and the, the wanting and the liking are phenomena of the nervous system, brain and gut as you've beautifully described. And that, that changes over time, depending on how we are receiving these nutrients.

2 (2h 8m 58s):
Absolutely. Look, we have a lot of work to do. I'm talking to, as a society, I'm not talking about you and I,

0 (2h 9m 10s):
We also have a lot of work to do.

2 (2h 9m 14s):
Now. I think understanding the circuits, he's giving us important insights and how ultimately in, hopefully we can improve human health and make a meaningful difference. Now, it's very easy to try to, you know, connect the dots a, to B, B to C, C to the, and I think there's a lot more complexity to it, but I do think that the lessons that are emerging out of understanding how these circuits operate, can ultimately inform how we deal with our diets in a way that we avoid what we're facing now, you know, as a society, I mean, it's nuts that the over-nutrition happens to be such a prevalent problem.

0 (2h 10m 12s):
Yeah. And I also think the training of people who are thinking about metabolic science and metabolic disease is largely divorced from the training of the neuroscientists and vice versa. No one field is to blame, but I fully agree that the, the brain is the key or the nervous system to be more accurate is the, one of the key overlooked features

2 (2h 10m 33s):
Is the arbitrary ultimately is the arbiter of many of these pathways

0 (2h 10m 38s):
As a final question. And one which is simply to entertain my curiosity and the curiosity of the listeners. What is your absolute favorite food?

2 (2h 10m 49s):
Oh, my goodness.

0 (2h 10m 53s):
Taste, I should say

2 (2h 10m 55s):
Yes.

0 (2h 10m 56s):
Taste to distinguish between taste and the nutritive value or lack there. Yeah.

2 (2h 11m 1s):
Look, we, unlike every animal and every animal species eat for the enjoyment of it, it doesn't happen in the wild most animals eat when they need to eat. That's. I mean, they don't enjoy it, but it's a completely different story. Yeah. I have too many favorite foods because I enjoy the sensory experience rather than the food itself. To me, it's the whole thing is from the present, look, they've been these experiments done in psychophysics, and I want take a salad made out of 11 components.

2 (2h 11m 45s):
And when that makes them all up in a book per reel of greens and other things here, I mean the other one, I'm going to present it in a beautiful arrangement. And then I'm going to put him behind a glass cabinet and then I'm going to sell them. And I'm going to sell one for $2 and one for $8, precisely the same ingredients, exactly the same amount of each. Ultimately you're going to mix them. They're all going to be the same. People will pay the $80 because do you know what either evokes a different person? He gives you the feel that, oh my goodness, I'm going to enjoy that salad.

2 (2h 12m 26s):
So going back to what is my favorite food to me eating is really a, a sensory journey. I don't mean the every day, let me have some know chicken wings because I'm hungry it. But eh, every piece, I think that's an important evoking sensory role. And so, you know, in terms of categories of food, you know, I grew up in Chile.

2 (2h 13m 6s):
Yes. So meat is always been, but I eat it. So seldom now

0 (2h 13m 14s):
Is that right?

2 (2h 13m 15s):
Yeah, because, you know, I know that's not necessarily the healthiest thing, red meat I'm talking about here. And so I know he grew up eating it every day. I'm talking seven days a week, Chile and Argentina, you know, that's the mainstay of our diet. Now, maybe I have red meat. I know once every four weeks

0 (2h 13m 41s):
And

2 (2h 13m 41s):
You enjoy, oh, I love it part of the way these, because I haven't had it in four weeks, eh, but you know, I left sushi, but I love the, the, the art of sushi, you know, the whole thing, you know, the way it's presented, it changes the way you taste it. I love ethnic food in particular,

0 (2h 14m 6s):
You're in the right place.

2 (2h 14m 8s):
You got it. That was the main reason I wanted to come to New York. No, just kidding.

0 (2h 14m 12s):
There's also that Columbia university

2 (2h 14m 15s):
And they came here because I wanted to be with, you know, people that are thinking about the brain, the same way that I like to think it was, you know, can we solve this big problem, this big question.

0 (2h 14m 26s):
And certainly you're making amazing strides in that direction. And I love your answer because it really brings together the many features of the circuitries and the phenomenon we've been talking about today, which is that while it begins with sensation and perception, ultimately it's the context. And that context is highly individual to person, place and time, and many, many other things on behalf of myself. And certainly on behalf of all the listeners, I want to thank you. First of all, for the incredible work that you've been doing now for decades in vision, in taste and in this bigger issue of how we perceive and experience life, it's truly pioneering and incredible work. And I feel quite lucky to have been on the sidelines, seeing this over the years and hearing the talks and reading the countless beautiful papers, but also for your time today to come down here and talk to us about what drives you in the discoveries you've made.

0 (2h 15m 21s):
Thank you ever so much.

2 (2h 15m 23s):
It was great fun. Thank you for having me. We'll do it again. I wish all

0 (2h 15m 29s):
Thank you for joining me today for my discussion about perception and in particular, the perception of taste with Dr. Charles Zilker. If you're learning from and are enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and apple and on Spotify and apple, you can leave us up to a five star review. If you have feedback for us in terms of comments related to topics we've covered, or questions or topics or guests that you'd like us to cover on future episodes of the Yurman lab podcast, please put those in the comment section on YouTube. We do read all the comments on today's episode of the human lab podcast. We didn't talk about supplements, but on many previous episodes of the human lab podcast, we talk about supplements that are useful for sleep per focus, for hormone support and other aspects of mental health, physical health, and performance.

0 (2h 16m 18s):
If you're interested in some of those supplements, you can go to live momentous.com/huberman to see the catalog of supplements that we've helped them formulate. And that mapped directly onto specific protocols described on the human lab podcast. That's live momentous.com/huberman. If you're not already following us on social media, we are human lab on Twitter and Huberman lab on Instagram. And at both Twitter and Instagram, I cover science and science related tools. Some of which overlap with the content of the Rivermen lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from the information contained in the Hebrew in lab podcast. We also have a newsletter in which we spell out protocols and some summaries from previous podcast episodes. If you'd like to check those out, you can go to Huberman lab.com, go to the menu and you'll find the neural network newsletter.

0 (2h 17m 2s):
You can sign up for that newsletter simply by providing an email it's completely zero costs. We have a very strict privacy policy. We do not share your email with anybody. Again, that's Huberman lab.com go to the menu and look for the neural network newsletter. And if you'd like examples of previous newsletters, you'll also find those@hubermanlab.com. Once again, thank you for joining me today in my discussion with Dr. Charles hooker about the biology of perception and the biology of the perception of taste in particular. I hope you found that discussion to be as enriching as I did and last, but certainly not least thank you for your interest in science.