Huberman (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab guest series where I and an expert guest discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today's episode Marks the sixth and final of the sixth episode series on fitness, exercise, and performance. And today's discussion is all about nutrition and supplementation to maximize your fitness, exercise, and performance goals. Dr. Andy Galpin. I'm super excited to discuss today's topic, which is nutrition and supplementation for performance and recovery. And I'm particularly excited about this conversation because I've been interested in supplementation and nutrition for performance really since my teens, but also because in recent years we've witnessed a massive transformation in the general public in terms of their view of supplementation and nutrition.

Huberman (51s):
First of all, more people are thinking about nutrition. What is good nutrition? What is not a very barbed wire topic as you know, but there are some truths in there that we'll discuss, but also supplementation, you know, whereas 10, 15 years ago, I think most people would either be really into supplements. That was a small percentage of people, but the majority of people were either told or were thinking, oh, you know, vitamins, you, you mostly excrete them. They're just expensive urine nowadays, it seems that many people, including many of my colleagues and physicians, all the way down to sports performance experts are taking and making recommendations about certain supplements.

Huberman (1m 31s):
And so the way that I like to think about supplements is that they aren't necessarily just supplements, which makes it sound like they are augmenting what should already be there, but you're not quite getting enough of. But indeed, a lot of these things we call supplements are very potent compounds that can transform our ability to perform in the short term to recover from exercise. And that can really shape brain chemistry hormone patterns acutely and when taking long-term. So I'm very excited about today's topic and to be able to try and sort through this, let's call it a, a cloud, hopefully not a storm, but this cloud of supplements that are out there because indeed many of them are excellent and can provide us a lot.

Huberman (2m 15s):
Some of them are terrible and then some just don't do anything and therefore are terrible because either they have side effects or because they're very expensive and they don't do anything. And then of course, within the realm of nutrition, there's an equal amount of, of confusion. But that's why I'm talking to you because you're gonna put clarity and structure and definition on these incredibly important topics.

Andy (2m 37s):
You, you absolutely nailed it there. One of the major reasons supplements can work is because you can consume nutrients in extremely high concentrations such that you would not get in nature through food. Having said that, you really do wanna focus on the basic sleep, nutrition, hydration, and I'm going to get into very specific detail later with some of those things. That's said, there are plenty of of situations and circumstances when supplementation can do exactly what you said. Also though, because you are taking them in such high concentrations, they can also be unproductive, they can be destructive or they can be counterproductive. So in case if you're taking a couple of supplements over here, it may actually be counteracting the benefits of some of the other supplements over there.

Andy (3m 21s):
So in the ideal situation, we would be able to work like a snipers here. So we would be able to run full biological testing, so extensive blood work and saliva and urine and stool and have an in-depth analysis of your gut microbiome and your stress patterns and your time of day and your cortisol curve. And like all the things that we do in our high performance folks. With that, then we can get extremely high precision supplementation. And and quite honestly, our philosophy is we only give individuals exactly what they need. So even some of the standard generally safe and effective supplements, we don't really necessarily use them if there's no specific need. We've talked about the consequences of this with things like antioxidants, but even simple stuff like stimulants and other tools that are effective for recovery, we don't use them unless we have a reason.

Andy (4m 9s):
That said, that's not the reality for a lot of people. They're not gonna be able to do something like that or somebody who can help them in that. So there are a handful of supplements that I would consider to be in my, my 80 20 rule, which is sort of like the 20% of supplements that are gonna give you 80% of the benefit for the lowest cost. And so what I can actually do is to sort of start there, even though this like burns my skin and my soul a little bit, I absolutely hate this. I am the context guy. I'm the, it depends, it's high precision guy, but let's be real. There are a number of supplements that are fairly effective and fairly cheap for a wide range of outcomes. So this is for general public, this is for people who wanna do the three buckets, right?

Andy (4m 49s):
You want to look a certain way. So supplements that could enhance muscle growth and fat loss, non-hormonal based supplements, of course supplements that could improve energy or physical performance. Again, from everything from, you know, squatting more to feeling better in your yoga class, to having more energy throughout the day to our third major bucket that we've been talking about throughout this entire series, which are longevity. So we can cover those first if you'd like to start there.

Huberman (5m 15s):
Yes, absolutely. Let's start there.

Andy (5m 17s):
Oftentimes when we think of supplements, we immediately jump to high sport performance type of things or vigorous workouts or or muscle building, though that doesn't necessarily have to be the case. Take for example, creatine, and I've spoken about this at length and with Darren, Darren Cando who's done a tremendous amount of research. I was just up at his lab recently in Canada and he has covered extensively. In fact, I, I think I put up a post, perhaps I could draw this up, where he laid out all the myriad of benefits of creatine. This is taken in the, you know, typically three to five grams per day of dose of creatine monohydrate, which has the most research behind it seems to be extremely low side effects in almost anyone.

Andy (5m 57s):
And the benefits including course things like muscle performance and strength and things like that. And if you go back to our discussion and our episode on metabolism and, and endurance, we talked about the phosphor creatine system. So you can figure out kind of what this is going to do in terms of effect. That's said there's excellent information and data coming out in all on the benefits of bone mineral density in creatine. There's a ton of work looking at a host of cognitive factors from memory executive function to effects potentially on even things like depression, mood to Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, all forms of, of neurodegenerative disease.

Andy (6m 40s):
In fact, it's, it's, it's pretty obvious the brain loves creatine as a fuel. And so not only, we sort of discussed it in the episode as being the fuel for skeletal muscle contraction, but the brain needs to do that as well. The astrocytes around the brain need to be able to provide energy, et cetera. So it's very clear that metabolism in the brain is reduced with things like TBI and potentially concussions. So now to be extremely clear, creatine does not prevent any of those diseases. It does not treat any of them and the data are mixed, but it more and more are coming. Some show a little bit of benefits, some show, you know, maybe none, but I'm not aware of any research in those areas that show it has any downside. For the most part, side effects are extremely minimal, if not nu and then potentially some benefit and depending on the specific study.

Andy (7m 27s):
So we could put up a, if you'd like, a couple of links directly to those meta-analysis and, and folks can go through those things one by one. So I only say that to again, maybe expand our understanding or thinking about what these types of supplements can do. It's not just about growing muscle or you know, high performance. It's everything to, again, there's an association with recovery. So creatine is fantastic for recovery, for muscle, for muscle damage. It helps and, and can potentially aid in fat loss and a whole host of things. So you can actually also even look@websiteslikeexamine.com. I have, you know, no affiliation within whatsoever, but if you wanna just type in something like creatine monohydrate, you can see a whole list and, and you're going to see thousands of studies of the potential benefits of creatine.

Andy (8m 13s):
So that is, is always number one on my list.

Huberman (8m 15s):
I'm relieved to hear that creatine sits at the top of your supplementation list because, well first of all, I started taking it when I was in college at that time I was taking it in this kind of loading mode where you take it in, you know, anywhere from 15 to 25 grams per day often causing some gastric distress, often combining it with fruit juice to try and shuttle it into the muscles. Sure. And then so-called maintenance phase of reducing to 10 or 15 grams per day. Nowadays I just take about five grams or so, although later I know you're gonna tell me why I should probably be taking more than five grams per day given my body weight. So I know we'll get into some of those specifics a little bit later. But in addition to experiencing direct effects on muscle size and strength, which I did, I don't know how it contributed to my cognitive function.

Huberman (9m 4s):
Yeah. Or if it does now, because there's really no way to tease that out with, with standard at home tests like a scale. But it is very clear to me based on the literature that you described and some of which we've covered on other episodes of the podcast, that the phospho creatine system is vitally important for four brain function, right? The four brain of course being the, the portion of brain, broadly speaking, the portion of brain just behind your forehead that is responsible for planning action, setting rules and context. So even as simple as if you are going down field in a game of soccer or basketball and you're on offense and then you make an attempt on goal or basket and then it switches and you go back, now you're on defense that being on defense is very different than being on offense.

Huberman (9m 48s):
And that goal, excuse me, that that rule switching is a prefrontal, cortical function as is every context dependent way of thinking or or acting. And so anything that can favor function of the forebrain I think is good for humans in general. It suppresses anxiety, allows us to interpret what's going on for us. And so I'm very relieved and gratified to hear that creatine sits at the top of the list. Also, as I'm sure you'll point out again later, creatine is for the most part a relatively affordable supplement for most people. So here we're not talking about something that's really esoteric or that you have to, you know, fly to some remote location to get an infusion of right. But that,

Andy (10m 27s):
Although I apologize to all you, cause I know the price has skyrocketed recently. Really?

Huberman (10m 30s):
Yeah. Why is that?

Andy (10m 31s):
I think it's a, well nobody knows, but it's quote unquote a supply and and demand issue if you will. So those prices have gone up. There's also of course been shipping problems in the world and things. So every time I, I talk about creatine right now, people just flame me for like, oh my God, it's so expensive now. I'm like, I know, I'm sorry, but honestly it's only so expensive because you're used to being so cheap. So when you, when you counter the fact that you're like

Huberman (10m 56s):
Right,

Andy (10m 57s):
Yeah, like relative to the other stuff, you're probably taking relative to any other number of purchases for the, it still lands very high on my ROI list, my, you know, my 80 20 because of that it's, it's, it can be taken any time of the day. It doesn't have to be in magical combination. You talked about congesting it with carbohydrates that can and hands how quickly it can get into the system. In fact it's, it's gonna work on the exact same me mechanisms, we'll probably potentially talk about hydration, but these things are shuttled. So anytime you bring in carbohydrate that's going to be shipped into tissue as quickly as it can, creatine then goes along further ride and then it brings water for the ride. That's how you enhance hydration. That's why it's important to have carbohydrates when you're trying to hydrate. So you're just gonna take it in there and that's also why you get cell swelling, which is a good thing.

Andy (11m 41s):
Like you're, it's just enhancing hydration. We actually use it a ton in our post weigh-in protocols. So in individuals that have to cut water weight, creatine's a great thing to throw back in there. It's gonna help you rehydrate. It's also why when you take 30 grams of it, it, it can pull a bunch of fluid in the intestines and, and there you go with your little bit of GI distress. So yeah, there's a lot of fun things you can talk about there. I just had to flag that because every time I've been talking about it recently and I say it's cheap, people are killing me for it. So I apologize, I don't know how to make any cheaper, but it's still fairly, fairly affordable.

Huberman (12m 11s):
Yeah, I would say relatively inexpensive compared to a lot of supplements out there and when thinking about the return on investment is, it's quite good.

Andy (12m 19s):
And yeah, so like actually sorry, sorry to cut you off, but I was just also thinking there's been a number of studies on sleep deprivation as well with creatine that can help. So obviously sleep deprivation will generally reduce cognitive function and creatine can ameliorate some of that drop. So if you think about it in that context, I had a crummy night of sleep. Well and if that enables you to perform a little bit better in your job, then you would make up the dollar or so whatever you paid for that day's supply of creatine. So it is something I kinda, on that note, it's not going to work as an acute response. So it's not something you're like, I feel terrible, lemme throw some creatine down the hatch. I'll feel better that that's not gonna work. It's going to take several weeks to have a noticeable effect. It needs to be stored in tissue, it needs to be built up before you can actually do much of anything.

Andy (13m 2s):
So it is unlike some of the other things like stimulants or caffeine that have an acute, you know, response right now. And so if you're going to take it, you probably need to consume it consistently. If you can't do that then there there's no point in doing it. And the loading phase, you mentioned distance we're here is something you can do again if you need to enhance the storage of it really quickly. So say for example, we've done this in some military cases where it's like you get back to base and you've only got a week and then you gotta go back out. We may actually have to do a little bit of a loading phase then, but if that's not the case, the loading phase is unnecessary, it's not really harmful other than maybe GI stress and maybe waste. But you are gonna have three or four weeks, it's gonna reach full saturation plenty of time to to be there in that if you're in that three to seven grams per day range.

Huberman (13m 48s):
Well I'm glad you mentioned the slow accumulating positive effects of creatine as compared to so-called acute effects. Because the way that I think of health promoting and performance enhancing protocols, like viewing morning sunlight or endurance exercise for that matter or creatine or sleep for instance, is that while they can have effects in the immediate term, you might feel a little bit, or in the case of a good night's sleep a lot better. It's really the cumulative effect of raising your baseline level of functioning. Yeah. You know there's another way to think about it is these supplements or behaviors and quality nutrition when done consistently over time, and that doesn't mean a hundred percent of the time.

Huberman (14m 31s):
Yeah. But you know, consistently probably 80% of the time sure Lead to a sort of buoyancy in your system that allows you to be more resilient under conditions where conditions aren't perfect. Right. And if conditions are made perfect or close to perfect and you already have that buoyancy, that's when you really start to see the ultra high performance effects that are so much fun. But they have to be established through consistent supplementation, consistent nutritional intake. So today I know we're going to distinguish between, normally they're called chronic and acute effects, but that makes it sound like chronic illness. The moment people hear chronic, well they might think of other things but, but in the context of health, they typically think of, you know, chronic illness and we're not talking about that.

Huberman (15m 12s):
What we're talking about is slow modulatory effects in the body. A lot of things in the body take time to build up, but once they've built up they they clearly can benefit us. And then other things, as you mentioned, you know, a stimulant for instance, yeah, has a very acute effect that is going to occur within, you know, peak within 30 minutes and we're off within, you know, four hours or so can also have some chronic effects but typically it's a short-lived effect. So we just wanna frame up the, the language that we'll be using and I'm really excited to dive into this topic and I think creatine is a beautiful example of a supplement that has positive chronic mental and physical benefits

Andy (15m 51s):
Down the road. I can come back and talk a little bit more about creatine and we can cover some other information regarding best practices for getting the most out of it as well as we'll certainly dive into some of the common side effects or at least a thought of side effects. While we're here though, I also could throw in a few other of these high-impact, low-cost generally safe things that are my 80 20 rule if you will. So the way I actually kind of think about it is you want one from each of three categories and these categories are fuel stimulant and fatigue blockers. So creatine is actually in the fuel, it's not a stimulant as we talked about the chronic effect there.

Andy (16m 31s):
So we've already knocked that one off. Another one from the fatigue blocker is gonna be anything like beta alanine or sodium bicarbonate. And then from the stimulant use of course we have anything like a beet root juice to a caffeine or something of the equivalent. So we can come back again and talk about all those in more detail a little bit later. Before

Huberman (16m 51s):
We begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is also separate from Dr. Andy Galvin's teaching and research roles at Cal State Fullerton. It is however part of our desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, we'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast. Our first sponsor is Momentus Momentous makes supplements of the absolute highest quality. The Huberman Lab podcast is proud to be partnering with momentous for several important reasons. First of all, as I mentioned, their supplements are of extremely high quality. Second of all, their supplements are generally in single ingredient formulations. If you're going to develop a supplementation protocol, you're going to want to focus mainly on using single ingredient formulations.

Huberman (17m 35s):
With single ingredient formulations, you can devise the most logical and effective and cost effective supplementation regimen for your goals. In addition, momenta supplement ship internationally, and this is of course important because we realize that many of the Huberman Lab podcast listeners reside outside the United States. If you'd like to try the various supplements mentioned on the Huberman Lab podcast in particular supplements for hormone health, for sleep optimization, for focus, as well as a number of other things including exercise recovery, you can go to live momentus spelled o u s. So that's live momentus.com/huberman. Today's episode is also brought to us by levels. Levels is a program that lets you see how different foods and activities affect your health by giving you real time feedback on your blood glucose using a continuous glucose monitor.

Huberman (18m 18s):
Many people are aware that their blood sugar, that is their blood glucose level is critical for everything from fat loss to muscle gain to healthy cognition and indeed aging of the brain and body. Most people do not know, however, how different foods and different activities including exercise or different temperatured environments impact their blood glucose levels and yet blood glucose is exquisitely sensitive to all of those things. I first started using levels about a year ago as a way to understand how different foods exercise and timing of food relative to exercise and quality of sleep at night impact my blood glucose levels. And I've learned a tremendous amount from using levels.

Huberman (18m 58s):
It's taught me when best to eat, what best to eat, when best to exercise, how best to exercise, and how to modulate my entire schedule from work to exercise and even my sleep. So if you're interested in learning more about levels and trying a continuous glucose monitor yourself, go to levels.link/huberman. That's levels link slash huberman.

LMNT (19m 18s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by element. Element is an electrolyte drink that contains the exact ratios of the electrolytes, sodium, magnesium in potassium to optimize cell functioning for mental and physical performance. Most people realize that hydration is key. We need to ingest enough fluids in order to feel our best and perform our best. But what most people do not realize is that the proper functioning of our cells and nerve cells, neurons in particular requires that sodium, magnesium and potassium be present in the correct ratios. Now of course people with pre-hypertension and hypertension need to be careful about their sodium intake. But what a lot of people don't realize is that if you drink caffeine, if you exercise and in particular if you're falling a very clean diet that is not a lot of processed foods, which of course is a good thing, chances are you're not getting enough sodium, potassium and magnesium to optimize mental and physical performance element contains a science-backed ratio of 1000 milligrams. That's one gram of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium and 60 milligrams of magnesium and no sugar. If you'd like to try element, you can go to drink element, that's lm nt.com/huberman to get a free element sample pack with your purchase. Again, that's drink element lm nt.com/huberman to claim a free sample pack.

Huberman (20m 32s):
To start off, I want to ask you about something that as soon as I say it, some people might roll their eyes or wonder why are we even talking about that now? But that I have to believe is among the more fundamental, if not foundational aspects of nutrition and supplementation for performance. And that's hydration, right? I mean I think we hear hydration. It's like okay, we have to drink six to eight glasses of water every day. Our urine should be relatively clear. If it's too dark yellow, we're not doing a good job of hydrating enough. Yeah, how much of that is true? Is alkaline water worthwhile for changing the alkalinity of my body?

Huberman (21m 13s):
I learned when I was in college and graduate school that the alkalinity of the different tissues in your body is very well controlled in order to keep you alive and that you don't want it to shift too much or you can enter pretty horrible states of seizure, vomiting and even death. So tell me about hydration and woven into that if you would educate me on electrolytes and hydration because I think most often when people ingest electrolytes, sure they could be ingesting salt tablets, they're probably getting some electrolytes by the way, electrolytes, sodium, magnesium, potassium through their food. I think most people think about drinking electrolytes. So water and electrolytes I think is a vitally important topic to kick this off with.

Andy (21m 56s):
Sure, we can jump right into your alkaline water. While there is perhaps much to say about this, we can maybe revisit this in another seven part series all on its own. I would just say it this way, there's probably a few things you should do before worrying about the alkalinity of your water and I'll, I'll just leave it at that.

Huberman (22m 16s):
Meaning the alkalinity of the water is, is sort of irrelevant.

Andy (22m 19s):
Not that you won't go that far, it's just, it's probably, remember we sort started off talking about 80 20, well this would be in my like 99 1 in terms of like if we're really at the level of worrying about the pH of their, your drinking fluid, we have optimized so many other things that then we can talk about it. But until we have nailed months and years of work on other things, this is just not gonna make much of an impact.

Huberman (22m 45s):
Great. Then perhaps you could tell us about what volume of water we should be drinking, when we should be drinking that water relative to training and just generally and yeah and anything else related to water and electrolytes that can improve mental performance, physical performance and offset any, you know ill effects.

Andy (23m 4s):
I like the fact that you mentioned physical and mental performance because it's clear in both cases we hear that we need to drink more water and I can give you some numbers and I will in a second. What we also need to recognize is there's, this is hormesis. We talked about hormesis a a few episodes ago and this is the case, right? Whether we talked about food or hydration or I think I gave you the example, cyanide naturally occurring in your food water is the same way. So if you are under hydrated or dehydrated, then there is a clear negative effect on your body. And as I increase the level or improve the level of hydration, things get better. Whether this are physical performance or whether this is mental performance. In fact, we know that a body weight reduction of as low as 2% via dehydration.

Andy (23m 46s):
So imagine you're doing a bout of exercise and you're sweating and you lose 2% of your body weight. That alone is enough to reduce accuracy and performance. So the classic study we talk about here was in basketball players, so shooting accuracy. So free throw shooting I think is specifically what they looked at. Significant reduction in performance with as little as 2% dehydration. At that level you also see a significant increase in perception of difficulty of exercise. And so only right at 2%, and again when I say 2%, I mean percent body weight loss, right? That's what that means. You start getting the three, four, 5% dehydration, you start having a significant reduction in blood volume and that's incredibly important for endurance.

Andy (24m 26s):
Your blood becomes viscous, it gets hard to pump through and you're gonna start having all kinds of issues. So being dehydrated is again, not only going to reduce performance but because of the mental aspect which we just walked through and neuromuscular issue, you're gonna lose accuracy, you're gonna lose total endurance performance and you're gonna lose speed and power. So we have the triad there no matter what you're interested in, it's gonna be harmed by being dehydrated. That also is happening then if you're starting your program dehydrated. So if you're already 1% or so dehydrated, maybe you're like a little dehydrated and then you lose a little bit of sweat, you've already hit that 2%. And so we're starting to see reductions in performance there.

Andy (25m 6s):
The same happens on the other side of that hormetic curve. So if you are optimally hydrated in some large window but you start going past that, we can start running into equal problems. Remember there is a, there is a need for an optimal concentration of sodium and potassium and chloride between your cell, inside your cell and outside of your cell. These are electrolytes. This is what we call osmo and osmolarity is, is really what is, think of it like concentration and osmosis if you remember those terms. So if we are trying to create a muscle contraction that requires an electrical gradient. And so sodium and potassium specifically in magnesium calcium are positively charged in, chloride is negatively charged and we need to have a certain amount inside the cell and outside the cell so that the positives and the negatives are balanced appropriately.

Andy (25m 50s):
So that when we move one we change the voltage and we have in the case of a muscle contraction, okay, I just skimmed through a whole lot of of physiology there to say if you then go mess with fluid only and you say if I were to give you a bolus of, you know, three liters of pure water right now, you're going to dilute your blood. And so there's not going to be as many chemical, there won't be as many electrical signals in there cuz you've taken the same amount of sodium, potassium, et cetera and put it in a larger volume of pure water. So that gradient is now changed. That becomes a significant problem for contraction. I mean quite literally it, it can kill you. This is what we call hyponatremia. So natremia be spelled n a hypo being low hyponatremia.

Andy (26m 33s):
If you actually go to the periodic chart, na is what we use for sodium. So hypo, it's cuz the word is natremia actually. So that what that literally means is low sodium and you didn't get that from sweating out all your sodium. You actually get hyponatremia from drinking in too much water. So it's not that the total amount of sodium gets low, it's the fact that the concentration gets low from excessive fluid intake. So in the extremes, in fact if you look at the, the literature you'll see anywhere between like two to 15% of people who finish endurance races are, are into hyponatremia. Now that varies wildly if you're doing Iron Man and Kona versus like, you know, the marathon in Denver in in October, right? It's, it's gonna be totally different depending on weather conditions.

Andy (27m 14s):
But these are all important. So while like death happens, that is sort of extreme, if you back up just a little bit, you start seeing the same types of performance sacraments. In fact the symptoms can be identical, brain fog, confusion, performance irritation, a GI distress and you think man these are symptoms of dehydration. So then you drink more water and you're just exacerbating the problem. And I can actually give you one little example of this. We had an executive, actually female ceo, I'll say she's probably when her was in her early forties. And so she came to us and she thought man, for sure she has some sort of gut problem going on cuz we hear a lot about kinda like gut health and how it affects everything. And so she's just like, I have brain fog and I've done all these things and I got blood work done and everything's fine, like nothing's going on.

Andy (27m 60s):
I think I must have some sort of gut thing Eric going on or whatever and it's okay. And we just started going through her stuff and she was I think about 170 pounds plus or minus and she was consuming like 250 to 60 ounces of water a day.

Huberman (28m 14s):
That's a

Andy (28m 15s):
Lot of water. That's a ton of water. And we were like, holy shit, what are you doing this for? And she's just like, I, that's sort of like my thing. It was, but she didn't realize it was more of like a nervous tick than it was anything else, right? She just like sips of sip, sip, sip of water. I'm like man, how often do you go pee? And she's like, yeah, like every you know, 30 minutes or something. And I'm like fantastic sleep problems focus. And so she's smashing caffeine. She was at like eight cups of coffee a day,

Huberman (28m 37s):
Which is also gonna add to to excretion of sodium.

Andy (28m 40s):
Totally right? So it's like okay we don't really need to come in and run a sleep study on you, we're just gonna lower your water. And she was like, what? We dropped her down to like 180. So basically an ounce per pound of body weight, which is still high cuz she did train

Huberman (28m 56s):
180 ounces, correct? Yeah,

Andy (28m 59s):
She does work out. So she needed to replenish some stuff and we'll cover these numbers in a second instantaneous Sammy like two days in she's like, oh my god I, I haven't slept six straight hours in years. And then after that it was like basically tears coming back to us, right? My focus, my brain fog is gone cause she's in a very high pressure job. It's like everything's coming back. Like now she was down to three or so cups of off a day, blah blah blah. Like the whole thing, digestion improved all of it. She was sit like to her only problem of her all the analyses was she was just shrinking way, way too much water and adding more salt to her would not have solved the problem cuz she would've just had simply way too much fluid in her system. She was having all kinds of a DH problems and aldosterone like the whole thing.

Andy (29m 41s):
And then that that rolls into cortisol, the whole like system gets, goes into chaos. So it is important that you pay attention, hydration, even though as you sort of mentioned, people tend to just kinda like roll their eyes around it because if you're in the middle it's fine. But if you're anywhere past, not even the extreme extremes, but just that first standard deviation away, you're gonna have problems and you might be thinking adrenal fatigue, you might be thinking your testo, like you're gonna think all these things and you simply just haven't actually dialed in your hydration. Yeah,

Huberman (30m 11s):
I think people sometimes roll their eyes at the discussion of hydration because it just doesn't sound very sexy. It's not like, doesn't sound like a neurotransmitter or a hormone. It doesn't sound like testosterone or sterin or D H E A or dopamine, but it actually is all of those things. Yep. It sits at a level beneath all of those but not beneath on a hierarchy beneath in, in terms of a foundation. It's actually the without proper electrolyte balance and hydration, none of the cells of the body can function. And then I think people also hear that, oh you know, we are 70% water and somehow like that statistic alone or that fact alone doesn't seem to stimulate any kind of actionable takeaway, right?

Huberman (30m 54s):
It's like great, you know, like gravity also, you know, keeps us, you know, from jumping as eyes as we like, you know, what do I do? And so I think it's, it's important that people understand that every cell process in the body critically relies on having enough sodium mags and potassium around and the, the way that it's concentrated in fluid water is really the way that you allow every cell in their body to function as well as it possibly could and respond to all the sorts of kind of high performance tools Yeah. That we're talking about. The other thing I've observed many times over is that if people are ingesting too much water and also drinking a lot of caffeine and their electrolytes are low, they get shaky and they actually can have anxiety like symptoms.

Huberman (31m 38s):
So when people come into my lab to do studies on anxiety and fear, we ask a few questions and those questions include how much water they've had that day. Also a sort of bizarre fact, but one that I think is worth mentioning is that when the bladder is full it stimulates a sort of anxiety. If you ever had to urinate very badly and you're in the car or you can't urinate and then you get to the door, like that's talk about an anxiety and that's because there's a direct neural pathway from the bladder that registers the mechanical sensors, how much stretch there is on the bladder that sends a signal to the brainstem alertness areas, broadly speaking locus, aurelius and others that wake us up. These are the, when we're awake it makes us more awake and when we're asleep this is what wakes us up to urinate in the middle of the night.

Andy (32m 22s):
Yeah, that's actually why you can use night urination as a, a pretty good diagnostic of sleep disorders. So if, because of vasopressin, right? Almost exactly what you're talking about. If you're having sleep disorder issues and you're staying awake and a vasopressin gets taken off, right? And APN goes straight to the kidneys, your kidneys are supposed to be dormant basically at night, you're not supposed to be filtering a lot of and producing a lot of urine at night if that's happening and, and say you, you have any number of apnea kicking on or anything going on, vasopressin keeps going, keep sending a signal, kidneys start filtering. So if you're waking up and peeing multiple times a night, that's called nocturia. That is a very, very good sign that either one of two things happen. You one, you have some sort of sleep disorder or two, you're drinking outrageous amounts of water.

Andy (33m 4s):
And so that's actually a bit of a backward cycle now, right? Because you're drinking way too much water, you're waking up and peeing all night, that's actually ruining your sleep. And so we have seen this a number of times with our sleep company as we go in and it's just like, you don't need any of this crap. You just need to be properly hydrated. Alternatively, if your hydration is sound and you're still waking up more than one time a night to pee on average, then you almost, well I shouldn't say it like that, but there's a potential that you actually have some sort of sleep disorder or sleep condition going in. So the rule of thumb on that is, so we're here once or night, once a night or so of urination is fine. If it is routinely or consistently more than two, you need to make some adjustments. Start with hydration. It's the simplest way, right?

Andy (33m 44s):
Getting a full sleep study done, just figure out hydration. We, we've had this happen a number of times where people wanna get more health conscious and they just get, they hear things like this and they're like, I gotta get in my water and then they just start train wrecking their sleep and they're waking it up. So if you're waking up multiple times and you're urinating and it is a large amount of urine for you and it is clear, that's probably not sleep apnea induced nectria. That's probably excessive hydration. If you're waking up a bunch of times and it's fairly small amounts of urine, then it's probably not the fluid issue. It's probably the fact that the vasopressin is kicking your kidneys into gear. So that's not a perfect criteria, but it is just like a quick little tool you can sort of use. That's actually one of the reasons why we measure almost always your body weight at night as well as in the morning.

Andy (34m 29s):
So that, that's like the combat sport in the UFC fighters boxers. We call that your float, how much you floated overnight. I like to know that number cuz I wanna know as well your first morning void. So when you wake up and you went to bed at 200 pounds, you woke up the next morning at 1 95, it's like oh you floated five pounds. Did you pee last night? Yeah, yeah three times. Interesting. Another case you woke up, you went to bed at 200 pounds, you wake up at 1 99 0.5, okay you're dehydrated cuz you should have ave a certain amount of fluid that you're just respiring out as you're breathing throughout your nose throughout night. Ideally guaranteed you're gonna wake up. What was your urine like? Oh yeah, a little bit pretty dark. Like shocker, you're dehydrated. So you can kind of look at numbers like that.

Andy (35m 11s):
A general float is something like a pound to two pounds for the 170 plus pound person. As you scale up that number can go up a little bit but you can kind of use these to triage a little bit about what's going on with this kind of combination. It's everything is everything, right? So it's like it's not just about one system. Sure. So you're gonna pay attention. You can also look, well I dunno if you wanna jump into it, we can, but there's a whole bunch of ways I I can teach you to diagnose hydration and then maybe we can start there and then we can talk about about hydration

Huberman (35m 38s):
Numbers. Yes, I'd love to talk about diagnostics for hydration rehydration dehydration. To start off, would you be willing to give us some numbers? How much water should we be drinking?

Andy (35m 50s):
The classic rule here and you're making me do what I hate, right? I wanna give all the caveats first, but I'll go straight to your number. Half an ounce per pound of body weight is a rough rule. So if you weigh again 200 pounds, that would mean you drink a hundred ounces of water a day. Most water bottles are like 12 to 20 ounces, something like that. So you know, you end up drinking six of those or so a day, kinda like plus or minus, which is not that unreasonable. This does depend on a number of factors which I could go over, but that is a, a rough starting place. The only other thing to add to that is that does not account for exercise-induced water loss or sauna or anything like that. So that's assuming just like basal daily needs if you are exercising or sweating at all for any reasons or work-related, so folks that work outside or in the heat or a human environment, this, these numbers all change and you can slide this scale up, but you generally want to drink about 125% of the fluids you've lost during that physical activity back.

Huberman (36m 51s):
And how much do you lose per hour of

Andy (36m 54s):
Exercise it? The number ranges between one to five pounds depending on the person. Nick can even be hired with some of our athletes, like I can think of a number of NFL players right now. It's not uncommon for those guys to do eight or nine pounds even, not even like crazy circumstances. If it's August and we're in Jacksonville, it's not wild for us those guys to go nine, 10 pounds. But

Huberman (37m 13s):
What about the typical person who goes to a air conditioned gym or goes out for a run on a day that is somewhere between let's say 55 degrees Fahrenheit and 85 degrees

Andy (37m 23s):
Fahrenheit? You're probably looking at like a pound. Got it. It's not extremely high if you are totally soaked might be like a pound and a half to two pounds if you're like a comeback and like your pits are a little sweaty and there's a little bit of water kind of on your neckline or it's probably like a more like a pound or so. So in that case you might drink back a pound and a half of water.

Huberman (37m 43s):
Okay, so just to review these numbers to make sure that I'm on the correct page here. A half an ounce of fluid per pound of body weight is a, a sort of a foundation for hydration and then you want to replace 125% of the fluid loss during exercise. And exercise varies where exercise is done varies whether or not people are wearing uniforms or helmets is gonna impact how much fluid they lose, et cetera. In a very hot environment that the amount of fluid lost can be anywhere from, you know, one to five, maybe even 10 pounds, easy per hour of hard, hard exertion for most exercise done in conditions of 55 degrees Fahrenheit to 72, excuse me, 85 degrees Fahrenheit.

Huberman (38m 31s):
Done with some degree of effort, one might lose a pound or or two pounds of

Andy (38m 36s):
Water. Super easy way to find out, all you have to do is weigh yourself naked, go do your workout, come back in, dry off, weigh yourself naked, that'll tell you exactly what you lost. So if you went in, you were 160 pounds, you come back out, you weigh, you won 58, you lost two pounds, drink back two and a half pounds of water, you're good. So that is honestly, it's like fairly gold standard for identifying you can actually buy a whole bunch of technology for this and they are using the exact same equation, which is your body weight when you were there. Now if you do that though, you do need to account for any fluid you drank during the workout. Sure. Because that then offsets it

Huberman (39m 11s):
Simple. But I think important question, we're talking about a half ounce of fluid per pound of body weight. Does that include things like coffee, tea, soda, pre-workout drinks, mid workout drinks, Monte macho, whatever the, you know, there's a yba Monte, there's a, there are a million things out there or just water,

Andy (39m 31s):
Any fluid for the most part is gonna count.

Huberman (39m 34s):
And is it true that fluids that contain caffeine generally cause us to secrete sodium?

Andy (39m 41s):
Yeah.

Huberman (39m 42s):
Okay. So do you recommend including electrolyte powder or a small pinch of sodium or any number of other supplement type electrolytes that can replace that sodium, magnesium and potassium?

Andy (39m 55s):
A couple things we have to pay attention to, to accurately answer that question. What you also sort of asked about you may have not realized is does caffeine actually enhance dehydration? Which is not really what you asked, but it's probably a lot of people thought that as well. So caffeine can, but coffee doesn't necessarily do that because remember you're congesting that with fluid and so we used to say that all the time how coffee dehydrates you. It doesn't, it might mike your urine yellow. It certainly gives off an a odor in your urine. But in general coffee will not do that cuz you're ingesting if you were to now be taking caffeine pills alone. Now there, there is a bit of a diuretic effect there and so you're gonna urinate how much, maybe not enough for you to be really concerned with, especially when you balance that against the ergen effects and benefits of caffeine.

Andy (40m 43s):
It's not something we are concerned about. Second part of your question, do you need to then offset the loss of sodium? I'm not super concerned about the amount of sodium loss to caffeine. I am more concerned about simply the amount of sodium being correct because of the bigger circumstances. Like how much is actually in your system and how much you lost in the training session. So it's not the caffeine that I care about that much relative to, you know, if you lost three grams of sodium because of the training and you added another few milligrams because of the caffeine, I don't really care or, or didn't.

Huberman (41m 14s):
I'm glad you brought up the difference between a substance like caffeine and the vehicle it's contained in like coffee. Cool. This is all really important and it also raises a, a question about individual differences in sweating ability and I call it sweating ability because I have a good friend I've known for ages really actually work with him in my laboratory as well. And he's one of these people that the moment he starts any physical activity, it's like a flood warning. Yeah, right? He just soaks through clothing. He's just, the, the sweating adaptation is, is exceedingly robust in him, other people less so. So is it true that sweating in our ability to dump heat through it by loss of water is something that we tend to vary on and that also that we can build up that capacity.

Huberman (41m 58s):
I know a number of people are probably thinking, Ew, gross, why would I want to sweat more? But there's actually a huge advantage to be able to dump body heat during exertion because body heat in some ways sets the cap for performance

Andy (42m 10s):
In lot, many, many ways,

Huberman (42m 12s):
Including mental performance more. Sure. Our ability to stay alert often is enhanced by it being cold. And of course we all want to warm up properly, but in terms of loss of fluid through sweating, is there a way to easily bin ourselves into kind of a, a low sweater, medium sweater heavy sweater? That sounds like a, an article of clothing, but in any case, you know what I'm, you know

Andy (42m 33s):
Man, another lot to say here. We wish we had a whole series on this.

Huberman (42m 37s):
Listen, if we have to go 17 hours, we can do it. Just everybody hydrate. Well,

Andy (42m 42s):
And I think we've shown the listeners that is a real threat, that's a very real

Huberman (42m 48s):
Threat podcasting to failure. You don't have to do every set in the gym to failure, but here we are attempting a podcast to failure in it. In all seriousness. Yes. What, what is the role of sweating ability and is this something that any of us should care about or train for or pay attention to? Or is this just kind of getting into the arcane

Andy (43m 6s):
Number one, you can train your ability to sweat. This is important for heat acclamation and why that matters when you sweat, that actually is not what regulates your temperature. You what you want to have happen is the fluid to hit your skin and that to be evaporated. That's the actual mechanism. So in fact, if you stop sweating and like you can guarantee within a short amount of time you're gonna be done moving.

Huberman (43m 29s):
Oh, very interesting. I hope people heard that and really are, are highlighting that in their mind that sweating is a process of bringing fluid from your body onto the surface of your skin. And then the heat dumping aspect of sweating is the evaporation of that off, off your body, which brings to mind all sorts of ideas about how to dress during exercise, et cetera. But what you said is that if you are not sweating enough, you are limiting your output capacity. So it's not just about having enough fluid to sweat. Yep. It's also about being able to sweat and being dressed appropriately to allow that sweat to move to evaporate off your

Andy (44m 7s):
Body. Yep. And heat acclimation training is as simple as it sounds. So just practice it more so if you're going into a process where you either need to be in a hot environment or you need to improve your sweat rate, you just need to practice sweating and your body will get back to that practice a sauna, practice a jacuzzi, just get in those things and you will improve your ability to do that. Now there is a huge genetic component. I have one individual, actually a UFC fighter I've been working with, I, and I don't mind mentioning his name, he'll gimme full permission Scott Holtzman many, many years. He's actually fighting right now. Actually today he'll be going. He is like, he, he is like you described like buckets and buckets and buckets of fluids come off this guy when he's tying his shoes, like he just goes, right?

Andy (44m 50s):
Like, and no, we've, we've improved that. I actually sweat too much. We worked on that a lot early in his career and we, we got some improvements down to get him to hold onto to fluids better. That being said, I've worked with the other individuals in his weight category and it's the opposite, right? So we can have them literally do the exact same training session together and Scott will dump six pounds and, and other folks at his size will dump two, two and a half. So there's a genetic component that is just there and you don't need to worry about it there. So can you identify if you are a heavy salt sweater or not? Well, you have a whole bunch of routes for this. Number one is you can use the old free cost free test of just looking at your clothing and if you're seeing that white residue all over it. So you've, you've all have the friend who probably wears that same bass baseball hat that they've had for eight years.

Andy (45m 33s):
If it is covered in the white junk all over the place, that's a, a sign of a higher salt sweater. If the opposite happens and it's like you can pull their clothing back and, and there's just nothing there, they may be a little bit of a lower salt sweater. You can also use any number of hydration tests. I know that there is some coming out in the market very, very soon that can give you theoretically real time measurements just like a CGM would be. Although I haven't seen any data on if those are accurate or not and haven't used one yet. But there are a number that are out super cheap, you know, 10, 15, 20 blocks all the way up to a couple hundred dollars. You can buy these patches, put them on you and get a reasonably close estimate.

Andy (46m 15s):
And again, if those things are five or 10 or 20% off, I don't know, have to see independent data come out first. But even if they are, you're not, you're not worried about this specific milligrams, right? Whether you sweat out, you know, 1,250 milligrams at a workout or if it's 1340, it doesn't really matter. You're trying to look for a big, big numbers, right? Are you losing 500 milligrams or using three and a half grams where you're at? So those things will get you in a ballpark to do exactly what you just said. Am I high, medium, or low? And there's a lot of them that, that I've used in the past so that that's another way to go about it. Then what you wanna do is probably match your electrolyte intake to something close to what you sweat. That's the ideal scenario.

Andy (46m 55s):
You can get a lot of information about hydration from blood. You can look at like acute markers of dehydration, like hemoglobin hematocrit if your, like, if your hemoglobin is like 15 plus. It's funny, we've talked about this in a few episodes before, but I see that and I'm like, man, that dude's super fit. That's like a 15 for hemoglobin. A pretty high 14 or so would be pretty good for a female. That's also the exact same thing as the sign of acute dehydration. So hematocrit, same thing. If you're north of 50%, you're probably dehydrated. So you can get a lot. There are also though a lot of biomarkers that can tell you more about chronic dehydration. So you can run through those things as well. So a good blood chemistry test can tell you a lot and you can actually get some insights in your sodium and potassium albumin is another fantastic way to, to measure longer term dehydration status.

Andy (47m 40s):
Now one of these amazing globulins that we've sort of talked a lot about, so you can do all those things. You can also simply measure the body weight pre and post and use the sweat patch or not, and use the, the freer version of your clothing test and get a rough idea of where you're getting it from. So those are good places to start. I wanna go back though and make sure I wasn't over terrifying the audience too much. On a silver piece, if you're performing a type of training or exercise or sport in which you're not losing more than 2% of your body weight, you don't need to be overly concerned about hydrating in the sport. And so we can actually get into the, to some equations for how much water to drink during training right now.

Andy (48m 22s):
But if you, if you're again losing less than that, it's not critical. You can have some fluids, it like makes you feel better, but you're not gonna be experiencing tremendous amounts of performance sacraments. If you're, you know, again, out playing a, a baseball game and it's 50 degrees out, you're fine. You can drink some water, but that's not gonna be compromising performance or recovery. So we can actually then, if you'd like, I can go through the three step system for optimizing hydration, but those are, I, I wanna make sure I plant that flag so people aren't just terrified that they gotta be guzzling down water if they're, you know, going to their physical therapist for some stretching, that's probably not super important.

AG1 (48m 57s):
I'd like to take a brief break and acknowledge our sponsor. Athletic Greens. Athletic Greens is a vitamin mineral probiotic and adaptogen drink designed to help you meet all of your foundational nutritional needs. I've been taking Athletic Greens daily since 2012. So I'm delighted that they're a sponsor of this podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens, and the reason I still take Athletic Greens once or twice a day, is that it helps me meet all of my foundational nutritional needs. That is, it covers my vitamins, my minerals, and the probiotics are especially important to me. Athletic Greens also contains adaptogens, which are critical for recovering from stress, from exercise, from work or just general life. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs and they'll give you year supply of vitamin D three K two. Again, if you'd like to try Athletic Greens, go to athletic greens.com/huberman to claim the special offer.

Andy (49m 49s):
I would love for you to tell us what I refer to as the galpin equation. Understanding of course, that you did not name it the Galpin equation. Listen, folks, scientists can have things named after them, but in general it's not reflective of healthy psychology if they name things after themselves, correct? Sometimes, yes, neuroanatomists used to do that, but in any case, Dr. Andy Galpin did not name the Galpin equation after himself. I named it after him. And the Galpin equation for how much fluid to ingest during exercise is You want to take your body weight, IM pounds and divide that by 30. And you want to consume that number, which would be in ounces about every 15 to 20 minutes.

Andy (50m 31s):
So in the example of you being 200 pounds, you would take 200 divided by 30, which is, let's just call that number seven, to be close, which means you would consume about seven ounces of water every 15 or 20 minutes or so. Okay? Now, as a little bit of a point, while I also did not name it, I also didn't do the research, it's important to point out that other scientists figured these things out. I just read their papers and made that derivation of their equation to make it a little bit easier for us folks who do not work on the metric system.

Huberman (50m 60s):
Okay, a couple of things. First of all, I'm not 200 pounds, but it doesn't matter how much I weigh because the point is that the listener

Andy (51m 6s):
Correct

Huberman (51m 7s):
Should take their body weight in pounds divided by 30 and just that number of ounces in fluid every 15 minutes. And then for those out there outside the US that are accustomed to thinking in milliliters and liters, not ounces and kilograms, not pounds, what is the galpin equation in the metric system?

Andy (51m 26s):
This would be two milliliters per kilogram, which again, if you were, let's say 200 pounds, that's gonna be something roughly like, we'll call it 90 kilos. And so if you did two milliliters per kilo, you'd be something like 180 milliliters of fluid again, every 15 or 20 minutes.

Huberman (51m 43s):
Great. And how should people ingest that fluid? And of course, I would imagine it's through their mouth, I would hope, I hope there are other orifices that, that it might suffice, but let's not go there. They're drinking that water consistently or is it every 15 minutes they slug it back? Does it matter?

Andy (52m 1s):
Okay. Yeah, that's very good. Handful of things. In general, when you talk hydration, the slower and steady you can go, the better. In fact, the reason these this two milliliters per kilogram number came out is because a number of trials were run when they looked at that every 15 minutes, just one bolus of it, you know, in different derivations. And it is pretty clear that the slower pace one could do it the better. So whether you're doing it every 10 minutes or 15 or 20 minutes, the reason we actually give that gap is because you have to be also offset a little bit of GI distress. In fact, like kind of the, the four golden rules of recovery, if you will. We use sort of three Rs.

Andy (52m 41s):
You need to rebuild rehydrate and replenish. What that really means is you need to have a continuous glucose stream, you need to have a continuous amino acid stream, you need to hydrate and you need to do all one, two, and three without disturbing your gut too much. And so in this particular case, it was sort of found that we can hit that level in general and be just fine for most people. So I mean, a little bit of context, the example we gave there, in both cases it's something like six to seven ounces for 15 or 20 minutes. If you think about that, there's 16 ounces in a pound and most water bottles, like if you go buy a water bottle at a store here, it's, they generally come in like 16 ounce bottles ish.

Andy (53m 21s):
So six or seven ounces is really like a third of a water bottle, maybe every 15 or 20 or so minutes. So it's not some egregious amount of water that you have to slam down. Now that is influenced heavily by how hydrated you started the session with. So how hydrated you came in. External factors like heat, humidity, temperature, things like that. But that gives you a rough idea that again, and these are numbers that you would need to consume to optimize performance. At the end of that then is when you would look to see how much I lost like we talked about earlier, and then add back that 125%, taking into account how much fluid you ingested.

Andy (54m 2s):
So if you're 200 pounds and you drink a total of say a pound of water during the training and you started off at 200 and you finished at 1 98, you actually lost three pounds, not two pounds because you lost three, you drank one during it. So your final net number is two. So now you don't, you really need to drink back 125% of that remaining. Two pounds, two and a half pounds, something like that. These numbers, especially that 1 25 are, they're just rough guidelines. Some actually papers suggest it's all the way up to 150%. So it is just like an idea, don't measure out whether you need 5.5 ounces or 6.2 ounces.

Andy (54m 43s):
Like it just sort of gives you an idea of of where to start. All right, A few sips every 15 or 20 minutes is close enough.

Huberman (54m 50s):
I've actually started using the galpin equation to determine how much fluid I need for mental work given the now robust data that are out there on the relationship between hydration and mental work. It's been very effective for me. And again, there are peer reviewed studies that that support the idea that hydration is important for proper mental clarity and energy and focus. And that even being slightly dehydrated can disrupt that. But if Y one is drinking so much water that they're frequently going to the restroom and can't comfortably focus on the work they're doing, that's also an issue. So yeah, that's very helpful. What are the three most critical features of hydration?

Huberman (55m 32s):
And then I'd like to move on to some of the more particulars about supplementation and nutrition.

Andy (55m 37s):
Three parts start hydrated, maintain hydration throughout. Part three is hydrate post to fix it. Okay, we gave you the half ounce per pound of body weight equation. So you start the training hydrated, we gave you the, you know, two milliliters per kilogram slash body weight divided by 30 to stay hydrated. And then we give you the one 25%. But I can actually just give you sort of, I'm giving you another list here, I'm sorry. But it is my five step cheater guide for optimizing hydration for performance. Sorry. Step number one, drink a lot of water first thing in the morning. This gets everything kickstarted gets you going. It also saves you from having to drink a bunch of water at night, which is then going to compromise your sleep.

Huberman (56m 21s):
What's a lot,

Andy (56m 21s):
Depending on how big you are, are, the general thing I'll tell people is like one of the very first things you should do throughout your day. You wake up, go to the bathroom as you're consuming your sunlight, consume water, this is maybe chugging a full glass. It's honestly what I do. It's not the best route, but I'll just get

Huberman (56m 36s):
That going. 16

Andy (56m 37s):
Ounces, 16 ounces or so is great. It's fine if you're larger, you know, I'm, I'm 165 to 70 pounds depending on what's going on. Maybe a little higher. Sometimes if you're 225 pounds, maybe that number is 30 ounces, right? So you just sort of scale up and down. And the only reason I say a lot is it just depends on, on what you're doing. And I also should clarify, I don't really literally mean chug just like zips. Cuz the faster you drink water, the faster it's gonna expand blood volume. The faster it extends blood volume, the faster you get rid of it.

Huberman (57m 7s):
I don't think a lot of people know that.

Andy (57m 9s):
Yeah. This is, maybe this is clarifying, this is also, we sort of talked about earlier, if you drink too much water, you'll dilute the system. Well if you have a diluted system, your body's first reaction is to rid of water to bring total blood volume down, right? Remember if you were to go to a doctor and they looked at your total blood volume and they're like, man, you're five and a half liters, you're gonna be like, holy crap, you're gonna be put on a diuretic because you don't wanna have a heart attack and a blood

Huberman (57m 32s):
Pressure. I, I wonder if people are drinking a 16 ounce glass of water or other fluid all at once before going to sleep and that's why they're waking up in the middle of the night. Totally. Given what you just said, probably a better protocol would be to sip on a glass of water in the final hour, two hours before sleep.

Andy (57m 51s):
You generally, the number we say is three hours in the three hours proceeding sleep. You wanna basically limit fluid intake to sipping as needed.

Huberman (57m 59s):
Well I think that's, I'm gonna start that tonight. Yeah. Because I wake up generally once per night to use the bathroom and I do drink some fluids before I go to sleep. Yeah. Mostly cuz I'm pretty thirsty at that time. Yeah. But I'm gonna start sipping that water in the three hours heading into sleep.

Andy (58m 16s):
Yeah. So you can actually pay attention to is to go back, this is actually, I love doing this stuff, but if you're waking up at night and you have a very dry mouth,

Huberman (58m 26s):
Okay, not for me.

Andy (58m 27s):
All right. Cuz it can be one of two things, you might actually be dehydrated. And so then what the mistake people make is they're like, man, my mouth is so dry, I keep getting up to drink water at night. That makes you then pee too much. What that also indicates is probably your mouth breathing. So a lot of ways to fix people waking up and u urinating too much at night is to tape your mouth and or use a, a dilator over your nose. And then what happens is you don't feel like you have a dry mouth so you don't get up to consume any extra water throughout the night. So that actually reduces your, your fluid intake. So you don't have the problem of actually now having too much fluid Mm. To do it. And so there's another reasons why mouth taping can really, really help. And if you are having those issues and or snoring, those are not benign.

Andy (59m 10s):
That's a really, like you really should get some work on those. Something you're, you're not sleeping very well is the way I'll say it. It doesn't, doesn't necessarily mean something life-threatening but it's not a, a good thing. So you gonna run kind of your triaging things back and forth. So if you're like, I'm waking up to pee a lot but my mouth isn't thirsty. Okay, great. Then you may actually have just a water consumption issue. If it is my mouth is dry but I'm actually waking up and I'm having these large urinations, then you're not actually dehydrated, you're just breathing through your mouth. If you're waking up and your mouth is dry and there's not a lot of pee there, then you actually might actually legitimately be under hydrated. So a little bit of a game you can play there.

Huberman (59m 49s):
Well that's super informative. I think that the point alone that gulping a bunch of water all at once is going to cause you to need to excrete that water soon after. Is a really important point also for people that are going to, I dunno, give a talk or you don't want to have to get up to use the restroom. You have to sit through a long meeting. Yeah, yeah. Clearly I'm violating all these rules up until right now. I've been, you know, not I, I sort of follow the seagul approach to, to consuming fluids just glu glu in enormous volumes. I'm gonna start sipping fluids instead. What are some of the other rules of hydration,

Andy (1h 0m 31s):
Right? So you're gonna wake up, you're gonna start your day and start hydrated so you know, you're, you're consuming a larger percentage of your water earlier in the day, then you get all the performance enhancing effects of water and you don't have to worry about it compromising your sleep. So that's step number one also. Now you're gonna start your session closer to hydration. All right, great. Number two, eat mostly real whole foods. Why interesting. What you may or not have thought about is a huge determinant of your hydration status is your food choices. If you look at different foods, for example, most fruit watermelon, watermelon is like 95 plus percent water. Right?

Andy (1h 1m 10s):
Fantastic source. Also by the way, since we're here, it is not extremely high in carbohydrate. It's not extremely high in sugar, it is by percentage, but it, since it is almost exclusively water you're eating, it is not something that is extremely dangerous in terms of sugar. I there alone probably of all the things we've talked about in the six, six episodes, that comment right there will probably blow the internet to pieces and I'll probably get hate mail for life for it, but

Huberman (1h 1m 33s):
From people throwing water sugar, water throwing watermelons. Yeah, yeah.

Andy (1h 1m 38s):
Oh

Huberman (1h 1m 38s):
My gosh. Well I don't think the point is that sugar is necessarily bad. I think the point is that for most people they're ingesting too much sugar. Most people. Yeah. And it, it's interesting oftentimes the people who are justifying the ingestion of sugar are exactly the kind of people that should not ingest so much sugar. So there's a little bit of a user bias.

Andy (1h 1m 56s):
The point here is if you're eating whole real food, this is like now we're, we're kind of splitting hairs about these things. So,

Huberman (1h 2m 3s):
So morning hydration

Andy (1h 2m 5s):
Consumes you eat all real food. Yeah. Now important point here, if you compare it to other foods, like actually meat is, is a very high percentage of fluid depending on how well or long you've cooked it, you'll reduce it. Remember you said earlier number 70% water, right? So if you're eating meat, you're getting actually a big chunk of water as you cook it, of course you lose some of that. But meat can be like, I wouldn't call it a hydrating food item, but it is not as low as something like a biscuit, which can be actually like 10% water. That's why it's like dry and dense, which doesn't mean it's bad for you, but there, if you're eating highly processed foods almost by association, that means they've been dehydrated or partially right? So you're just getting less total fluid intake.

Andy (1h 2m 45s):
In addition, they have also been highly salted in general, right? So now we're in this position where we're under hydrated and highly salted bad spot. If you now switch over to mostly again just mostly whole real foodish, whatever that means to you, then your hydration is gonna skyrocket. You're gonna have a lot. So you're eating a ton of food. In fact it should be a large percentage of the fluid intake you have actually should be coming from your food. And you shouldn't have to be smashing water bottles after a water bottle all day. In that case though, you do need to add salt back. So we do see this a lot when people who try to make a transition from maybe a suboptimal nutritional lifestyle and they, they give up a little bit of other processed food and they come over and they start having problems because they're not actually consuming enough salt.

Andy (1h 3m 27s):
So add that back easy way to do that. You can use electrolytes and we could talk about those numbers if you want, if you just salt your food that you're making, you know to taste, that's gonna get most people in a, in a pretty good spot. So start hydrated, consume hydrating foods. Step number two. Step number three, you wanna pre hydrate if you know you're gonna do a workout session and it's gonna be hot and long or one of those things, you wanna look for that half a pound per body weight of ounces. So that's the number we're looking for to start our hydration session. We do that, we're pretty much taken care of. And then like I said, adjust depending on lifestyle, humidity and and other factors like that, you can use what is called the what system, W u t.

Andy (1h 4m 12s):
I think Bob Ken has done a ton of research in this area. If you wanna read more, look up his research. It is simply weight, urine, and thirst. So in other words, check your body weight, look at your urine color and gauge your thirst. And actually you can use three, those three things and those can significantly predict actual hydration status independent of actually measuring osmo or anything like that. So those three metrics alone are a pretty good indicator of where you're at. So you're gonna have that normal amount of water plus or minus if you miss that number for whatever reason, you get distracted. The number we typically tell people is like something like 400 to 500 milliliters of water in the hour proceeding the training.

Andy (1h 4m 56s):
All right, so that's like 13 to 20 ounces. So like you know, you're gonna go work out at three o'clock, it's two o'clock and you realize, ah man I have not drank much water today. You don't need to go smash tons and tons and tons. Just look for something like that. You know, call it a bottle of water if you will. If that's not enough, if you're in a really tough spot, you can do more like five to eight ounces, 15 or 20 minutes before exercise. You wanna be really careful about drinking a bunch of water like in the seconds before exercise because you're just gonna feel a whole bunch of water bouncing up and down in your stomach and nobody likes that. So one to 300 milliliters, 15 or so 20 minutes before that assumes you're in this like 185 pound range ish.

Andy (1h 5m 42s):
Again, if you're talking people of much larger size, you may need to increase those values accordingly. If you do all that, then you use the galpin equation for your intra workout hydration and you're in a pretty good spot. What you want to consume in that is what I call sweat. What I mean by that is you don't actually wanna necessarily consume water only during a workout. You wanna consume something that is iso osmotic to your blood. So something that is the same concentration that you've lost in your sweat. So if you've done a sweat test, you would then drink a fluid that is of the same osmo, the short version of that, something in the neighborhood of 200 to 400 milligrams of sodium.

Andy (1h 6m 31s):
Most electrolytes products are gonna be something like that. Now I know element is is a thousand milligrams and it's a lot higher, but most products now that you're gonna find are 250 to 400 milligrams and they're typically in the like two to maybe up to three to one sodium to potassium range, right? Coconut water is actually cool. It's, it's like basically the opposite, like a cup of coconut water I think has something like 200 milligrams of sodium but like 600 milligrams of potassium. So like total spoiler alert. But will we use coconut water? A lot of hydration? Just add a little pinch of salt cause that'll bring the sodium way back up.

Huberman (1h 7m 7s):
Yeah. One note about sodium. Obviously people who have pre-hypertension or hypertension want to be careful with their sodium intake. Anytime I've suggested that people might consider ingesting more sodium, you know it's sort of, it's like, it's like putting a target on your, on your back. And yet the data are pretty good showing that if people are not getting enough sodium, their mental clarity, their focus, their mental stamina, their physical stamina really suffers. And then people argue, well most of us are getting too much salt. That often is true for people that are eating a lot of processed

Andy (1h 7m 42s):
Foods and not training

Huberman (1h 7m 43s):
And not training, but for many people who are already sort of health conscious who are training, they're largely consuming, or I should say they're consuming largely non-processed or minimally processed foods. And especially for folks who are not ingesting many carbohydrates and are consuming caffeine. Totally, totally. You know, a lot of people don't know that carbohydrates hold water and that makes it sound bad. It's not necessarily that you know you're gonna get subcutaneous swelling of your body. No,

Andy (1h 8m 12s):
It's

Huberman (1h 8m 13s):
Recovering, it's it's bringing water into your system and, and it holds water. So when you drop carbohydrate starches in particular, you urinate a lot more and when you drink caffeine you also urinate a lot more as, as you pointed out earlier. So you start combining a few things like slightly lower carbohydrate or low carbohydrate eating really clean. You're not getting a lot of salt in your food and drinking caffeine and then exercising and then pretty soon those numbers that come along with you know, a gram of sodium in your electrolyte drink are not all that outrageous. And what you find is people feel much, much better when they're getting enough sodium. Yeah and of course I should say that there's no reason why someone has to ingest a, a supplement like element or something.

Huberman (1h 8m 55s):
There are plenty of other ways to bring sodium into your system. Iuo a pinch of pink salt or Himalayan salt or sea salt or even just table salt in water or just making sure that you're salting your food enough. And I think that there too, salt appetite and salt taste is a pretty good guide. If you taste something and it, it tastes really salty to you, that's an indication that either it's really salty or your salt stores are kind of tapped off, you're okay. Whereas if you're craving salt and you and you're thinking, gosh I really want to put salt on this already salty thing, not necessarily, but oftentimes that means that you are salt deficient. So salt appetite is a pretty hardwired set of neural circuits and hormones and I think we would all be wise to learn to tap into the, our kind of intuition about salt intake.

Huberman (1h 9m 39s):
But of course also to measure your blood pressure et cetera.

Andy (1h 9m 41s):
Yeah of of course if you think you have some sort of contraindication there that work with a medical specialist without, without question. Those situations you laid out though were very real. A lot of people are living like that. And so it's important for those folks to understand if you are going through symptoms, fatigue, lack of focus, cognitive function performance isn't there, then hey, like you may be unders salted. And again, actually a good amount of blood chemistry work can unravel that a lot and it can sort of tell you if you're running outta whack, there are a number of folks who are extremely sensitive sodium in terms of health risk and that that is a real thing. Again, work with your individual folks on that.

Andy (1h 10m 21s):
I don't work with anyone for disease treatment or management at all. I've said that probably four times, I'll say it six more times. I only take people who are healthy and try to make 'em perform at their best possible level. So it's actually funny you mentioned that because I was going to give people my recommendation for sodium intake in general throughout the day and then I decided I'm not gonna say that cuz all it's gonna do is make all the rest of the people who aren't coming to come after me for the watermelon comment come after me for that. So well

Huberman (1h 10m 45s):
By the end today's episode the goal is that they're everyone's coming after you, but also that everyone has learned something of value. You've already given us tremendous insights and actionable information on creatine and hydration. And along those lines I'd, I'd love for you to tell us about some of the things that we can do with supplementation in order to enhance training by taking certain things before we train. And I also have the question of how long before training should we start thinking about supplying nutrients and supplements for the training session?

Andy (1h 11m 20s):
I'm not sure I actually finished my fiber, maybe I wasn't clear enough about the last one, so I just wanna tie that, that bow and then we'll go to your next one. Yeah, no, it was probably my fault. So that in addition to the galpin equation in terms of amount I, I ran, I recommended a, you know, roughly three to one sodium to potassium recommendation and I gave you some rough numbers, things like that. I actually, in all honesty, used probably six to 10 different electrolyte companies depending on the situation. Some of 'em are really good in the case. Again, like element that's nice about that is there's no carbohydrate. However, the downside is there's no carbohydrate. So sometimes I want carbohydrates in the training because as you mentioned, there's significant evidence going back actually several decades on the benefit of carbohydrate during exercise.

Andy (1h 12m 6s):
So if you're in a situation where you're trying to again maximize actual exercise performance, you, especially if it is either long duration, so more than two hours or extremely high intensity and this has to be well north of a hundred percent of your VO two max in that situation, as we talked about in the endurance episode, you can actually start having a decrement in performance because of a drop of muscle glycogen, gli, glycogen concur start coming down. If that's the case, augmenting with the carbohydrates during the training, that is going to enhance performance. It's gonna do what we call spare the liver and it's gonna keep my second rule of my four, which is maintain glucose ingestion. It's gonna keep that going.

Andy (1h 12m 47s):
In general, what you're gonna find is the number is like a five to 9% glucose concentration in your fluid, which turns out to be like exactly the number that most sports drinks have. As well as I think that's pretty much exactly what coconut water is. The downside of sports drinks since we're here is they actually tend to be unders salted and so that they don't provide enough of them. If you look at the numbers, they're gonna say something like 60 to 100 grams of carbohydrate per hour is the target. And now if you're using the sort of galpin equation and you're splitting that up into 15 minute intervals, it's something again like 20 or so grams of carbs per 15 to 20 minutes. If you're doing, again, an hour long plus training valve.

Andy (1h 13m 29s):
So admittedly a hundred grams is a bit much for some folks depending on your size. So I would recommend starting in that 60 gram or so range again per hour total is what you wanna get to. And only in the situation in which muscle glycogen depletion is becoming a limiting factor to performance. So the other benefit of that is, as you mentioned, that actually drives water into the cell. And so you're gonna be in that nice sweet spot of you're actually keeping glucose going, which is gonna enhance performance and you're helping hydration at the same time. So the other little part that's important to pay attention to here is the type of carbohydrate matters. So you can use actually a whole combination of things called resistant starches, which I, I will use for a long bouts of exercise.

Andy (1h 14m 13s):
But in the middle of the workout you're going to want to focus on glucose and fructose, mostly glucose typically at least a two or three to one ratio of glucose to fructose. And the reason is those actually get into tissue through separate transporters. And so what happens is once the glucose transporters get full, you can't bring anything else in. However, since fructose comes in a separate route, you can maximize total carbohydrate intake by using two different unique forms there. There's a lot of ways you can do this, but this is where the momento fuel product is, is like specifically has that exactly in it. So it's fantastic. You can use food no problem. You can use a combination of things like honey and different, easily absorbable and and usable and things that you can actually like maybe put in a drink to get away with.

Andy (1h 15m 2s):
So there's lots of routes for it. But you wanna look in that, that sort of combination of five to 9% roughly glucose for there. So you do need to train your gut. So do not do anything and there's a generally a good rule, do not do anything in your competition that you've never done in practice. So try these food items, try these amounts, the carbohydrate numbers, try the sodium numbers, try the total amount of water, start low, you can always increase. What you don't wanna do is have to run out during the middle of your spin class and sprint to the bathroom and hope nobody's in your way, which in the lab we've seen, we'll just say accidents like that occur more than once.

Andy (1h 15m 42s):
So just be careful of your stomach.

Inside Tracker (1h 15m 45s):
I'd like to take a brief break to acknowledge our sponsor inside Tracker. Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health and wellbeing can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. One issue with a lot of blood tests and DNA tests out there, however, is that you get information back about various levels of lipids and hormones and metabolic factors, et cetera, but you don't know what to do with that information. Inside Tracker makes knowing what to do with all that information. Exceedingly easy. They have a personalized platform that lets you see what your specific numbers are of course, but then also what sorts of behavioral dos and don'ts, what sorts of nutritional changes, what sorts of supplementation would allow you to bring those levels into the ranges that are optimal for you. If you'd like to try inside Tracker, you can visit inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off any of inside tracker's plans. Again, that's inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off.

Andy (1h 16m 47s):
I realized that jumped the gun a little bit asking you about supplementation for before, during, and after a workout because what I neglected to ask about was training in the fasted state. This is something that we talked about in an earlier episode, but I think it's worth highlighting now. Sometimes the best way to supplement, if you will, a workout or pre-workout is ingesting nothing. I, I'm one of these people I actually prefer to, to do my weight training somewhere between seven and 8:00 AM each morning, sometimes a little earlier, sometimes a little bit later.

Huberman (1h 17m 16s):
I drink fluid water and I do ingest caffeine prior to those training days. On days when I don't train. I do as I often recommend people do, delay my caffeine intake 90 to 120 minutes after waking. But in any event it's water and caffeine yoba or coffee or some sort of stimulant for weight training workouts and generally not for cardiovascular training workouts. Although sometimes yes, so I'm training fasted that said, I'm ingesting carbohydrate the night before to make sure that my, I have glycogen stores that are topped off and so it's fasted. But with that caveat, what are your thoughts on training fasted and what I just described is fasted overnight, but some people are training in the afternoon and they may opt to not eat anything in the, you know, two to four hours prior to training or maybe even longer.

Huberman (1h 18m 12s):
I personally find that caffeine hits my system a lot better when I'm fasted better, meaning it just seems to have more of a potent effect. There are some reasons for that and of course we dissuade people from ingesting caffeine too late in the day cuz it'll disrupt sleep. So I'm not saying fast for three hours than drink caffeine, but who knows, maybe that's in your protocol. The simple version of this question is what are your thoughts on training fasted? And if people are gonna train fasted, how should they modulate their fluid intake, if at all

Andy (1h 18m 43s):
What happens with exercise in the endurance and metabolism episode we walk through and the fact that no matter what you're using for fuel, carbohydrates or fat or even other potential sources, the end product of all of those is atp, co2, and water, right? So you're trying to make atp, that is the fuel for exercise. Now ATP is adenosine triphosphate. So 1 23 phosphates on top of an adenosine. Well what you may have not put together is if you hydrolyze ATP and you break off one of those phosphates, you now have adp. If you do it again, you have amp, adenosine mono phosphate. If you do it one more time, now you just have adenosine.

Andy (1h 19m 26s):
And if you have then therefore run through a lot of exercise, burned a lot of energy, you have increased the amount of adenosine that's floating around. Now if you have a high concentration of adenosine, what's that gonna make you want to do? That's gonna bind into certain receptors. And when we know when those receptors get bound to you fall

Huberman (1h 19m 46s):
Asleep,

Andy (1h 19m 46s):
Bingo, caffeine will competitively bind into those receptors. Therefore that's why caffeine stops you from feeling like you want to go to sleep. Right? So we have a very clear relationship between exercise fuel. In fact, if you look at the literature, there's a pretty clear relationship between the more caloric expenditure in different sports and the higher amount of hours needed for sleep. So there's a nice tie between how hard you're exercising, how much energy you're burning, how much you need to sleep stimulants, which brings us all the way back to your question of fueling. So do I need to fuel prior to my exercise bout, if you're going to be limited in your exercise bout by fuel, then fueling is necessary one way or the other.

Andy (1h 20m 30s):
If it is a type of training that is not, then it's not going to matter. And so the examples we gave, if you're doing, if you're gonna go do a 32nd bout of maximum exertion and you're gonna do it one time, you don't need to worry about fueling at all.

Huberman (1h 20m 45s):
We're eating within your workout cuz only 30 seconds.

Andy (1h 20m 49s):
Yeah, you got 30 seconds, you don't need to worry about hydration post-exercise, you don't need to worry about recovery. Total energy expenditure was nothing. If you're gonna go, you know you're gonna go practice, you're gonna go to the driving range and practice your golf swing, you don't need to worry about it. The total amount of energy expenditure is just not high. In fact, in that case you might wanna keep it somewhat low because you wanna keep blood glucose fairly even and you don't wanna bring into the system. You certainly wouldn't wanna use stimulants, right? Cause you may get over exerted inside in all of these things. We probably should have started off our conversation with this in terms of macronutrients. The total amount throughout the day is more important generally than the timing of them.

Andy (1h 21m 30s):
Which is why you can do things like have a bunch of carbohydrate at night, not eat the next morning and lift and be just fine. It doesn't matter that you didn't have them in a few hours before. Your muscle glycogen is topped off, your liver is glycogen, is topped off. You're absolutely fine. You have plenty of fuel even if you were to wait a few more hours. In fact, even if you were to do conditioning, you're probably fine. I, I have plenty of athletes that prefer to do many of their training sessions faster in the morning for personal reasons. Not because it enhances performance, but if it doesn't enhance or harm it then and it's a personal preference thing, fine. If you're gonna go do a session though, where you're going to be really concerned with muscle glycogen depletion, and again, you can go back to that episode to learn different types when those thresholds hits and what you're worried about, then feeling would be important.

Andy (1h 22m 16s):
You would either need to have something before the session or consume it during the session. So one of the other things we'd like to say here is recovery starts during the previous workout, right? So if you're working out right now and you optimize nutrition right now, even if you don't necessarily need it for the current workout, if you can get ahead on recovery, then you're gonna be flying the next day. And the differentiation here between carbohydrate and protein is important. So the total amount of protein you ingest throughout the day is probably a bigger determinant for things like muscle growth than the timing. So the post-exercise anabolic window, it doesn't necessarily matter. Carbohydrate is different, the timing of that does matter.

Andy (1h 22m 56s):
It needs to be around and available. So you can maximize both hydration and muscle glycogen, resynthesis, which is restoring the muscle glycogen you burn during exercise. I also work with athletes that train multiple times a day. So in those particular cases, recovery window is half what you normally have. So if you're in a situation where you have two or three days before you work out, again, you don't need to worry about getting carbohydrate and before or during or after because by the time you go to train again, you will have restored your muscle glycogen levels easily. However, if you're training every day or twice in a day, then the timing of carbohydrate really starts to matter. And in that case I see no reason to not ingest those nutrients either before, during, or after.

Andy (1h 23m 38s):
You don't need need to necessarily do it, but you can. The general rule of thumb I give is something like this. If you're doing something where you're trying to really work hard, whether this is hypertrophy training or a lot of endurance, energy expenditure is gonna be high, potential muscle damage is high and or energy utilization is high. What you wanna look for is a number something in the area of like half a gram of carbohydrate per pound of body weight. So you weigh 200 pounds, you wanna make sure that either pre, mid or post or total, you bring in a hundred grams of carbohydrate. It's just a very rough number to start.

Andy (1h 24m 19s):
Protein is about half of that. So it's about a quarter of your body weight, right? So those numbers would be, if you're 200 pounds, make sure you have a hundred grams of carbs and 50 grams of protein. And again, it doesn't necessarily have to be before or during or after and you'll be in a good spot. All you need to do then is alter, what I do, I should say is alter the amount of carbohydrate based on energy expenditure. So an a lower energy and easier workout. Instead of having a hundred grams of carbs, I might tack that down to 75 or even 50 and be at a one to one carb protein ratio. If it was even harder, more sun, hotter outside, more fluid loss, I might go from a hundred grams of carbs up to 150 or 200 get closer to like a three to one or four to one carbohydrate approaching ratio.

Andy (1h 25m 11s):
So those are the numbers that I generally go by.

Huberman (1h 25m 14s):
Well, as I take a sip of my double espresso Americano here, I'd love for you to tell us about stimulants.

Andy (1h 25m 21s):
Sure. There's no shortage of these and most of our lives. And of course you can cover the health benefits of it Later you maybe you have an episode.

Huberman (1h 25m 30s):
Yes, we have an episode on caffeine. Oh and it does have certain health benefits, although one has to use caffeine correctly. Yeah. In order to drive those.

Andy (1h 25m 36s):
Yeah. So there's caffeine is the easy one to start with. And we won't belabor the point here. The evidence is strong, it has an regen effect. You can take it at whatever dosage is reasonable for you. And of course there is a bit of a learning curve there such that obviously the more you take it, the more you need to take. Even though there's actually some recent evidence showing, even folks who are acclimated to it, will still see an neurogenic benefit even though if they don't feel a big boost of it. So typically that takes 30 to 45 minutes or so, but it's highly dependent upon the person. So some people can smell coffee and immediately feel better. And that's probably working actually through a different mechanism of anticipation.

Andy (1h 26m 17s):
But you can take it there. Half life of it is, you know, four to six hours or something like that. It can totally depends on the person. So don't let it ruin your sleep. But if you take it prior to performance, it has a, a noticeable effect on particularly endurance. Maximum strength may be less, well quite clearly, less so in fact the data are mixed there on whether actually it does anything for peak strength. Although I think most people would rec would suggest that you know, you're gonna take it prior to trying to truly lift as, as high as trying to, you know, lift a one repetition max or similar. But most of the, the documented effects are on the, the endurance based activities.

Huberman (1h 26m 55s):
Yes. So my read of the literature in terms of performance enhancing effects of caffeine are that one to three milligrams. I wanna make sure that people hear the units correctly before you blitz themselves out with the caffeine. One to three milligrams per kilogram of body weight about 30 minutes prior to exercise has a definite performance enhancing effect. It also has a definite mental performance enhancing effect, especially when people who are regular caffeine users have abstained from caffeine for anywhere from two to 15 days. And, and that's an extremely rare circumstance. Mm. But even if they have not, it appears that one to three milligrams per kilogram of body weight of caffeine taken about.

Huberman (1h 27m 40s):
Again, it's not super precise as far as I can see, about 30 minutes before the event starts can really enhance reaction time and power output. And as well as, as you mentioned, endurance when I was researching the caffeine episode, one interesting caveat that I discovered was that if people are not caffeine adapted, they are not regular users of caffeine, the sudden introduction of caffeine can really degrade performance. Mostly because people don't know how to operate at that high level of autonomic arousal. Have you ever observed that?

Andy (1h 28m 16s):
Yeah, a hundred percent. In fact, there's actually data going up as high as 10 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. Wow. Which is, in fact, once you cross the five milligram per kilogram threshold, you'll start seeing performance decrements. So there's absolutely such a thing of ruining your performance with too much caffeine. So most people listening to this, if you're thinking, wow, they said caffeine, I'm all in. And then you just stop listening and now you, you know, go for your quad espresso shot before you're, every time you go to workout, you probably are passing that threshold. If you think about those numbers, one to three milligrams per kilogram of body weight. If you weigh a hundred kilograms, that's 220 pounds, that'd be something like two to 500 milligrams of caffeine, which is like a pretty high amount.

Andy (1h 28m 60s):
But you know, a coffee is gonna get you close, an espresso is gonna get you somewhat in that ballpark depending on source of stuff. So you don't really need to go and blister your brain with caffeine. And in fact if you do it, it's quite common and in fact likely that you'll actually make performance worse.

Huberman (1h 29m 16s):
Right? Yeah. The amount of caffeine in different coffees and sodas, et cetera of course varies. One thing that people ought to know is that the smallest of commercially available coffees at the most popular commercial vendors generally contain anywhere from 250 to 350 milligrams of caffeine. What that means is that the so-called medium and the large contain as much as 500 milligrams or one gram of caffeine. So for your morning large coffee at commercial vendor drinkers, if you're wondering why you get an A headache if you're 30 minutes late on that caffeine or if you can't access that caffeine at all, or even if you're drinking ca coffee, excuse me, from another source, you're finding like, oh it's really not doing it for me.

Huberman (1h 30m 8s):
It's because the amount of caffeine in the now commercially sold coffees is exceedingly high. It's about two or three times higher than the standard lookup tables that you'll see on the internet. So I'm not saying that to demonize caffeine, we can pretty quickly adapt to and form a tolerance to caffeine. Some people never really can get over the jitters. Other people are just fine with even a thousand milligrams of caffeine, but only because they've been drinking a lot of caffeine consistently

Andy (1h 30m 36s):
Anyway, it's, it's also wildly inconsistent from location to location, the brew type, the functionality. So yeah, that, that stuff can be very hard to figure out what what's happening.

Huberman (1h 30m 45s):
There's only one way really to objectively measure caffeine and that's used caffeine tablets and they work pretty well. Actually. Someone I know who's prominent in the podcast space uses 100 to 200 milligrams of caffeine in tablet form combined to a T. Yep. So they've now conditioned themselves to think that herbal tea actually has this caffeinating effect. But tablet form caffeine, while I'm not recommending it to, to outright it, is going to give you the best sense of how much caffeine you can tolerate and how much is performance enhancing or is performance degrading.

Andy (1h 31m 20s):
There's actually another line of supplementation we can go down here, which is not technically a stimulant, but it's something I use to help performance when you don't want caffeine. And so this thing specifically, if you're one of those folks who have to exercise at night and you want a little bit of boost for your training, but you don't wanna have caffeine cause it messes up your sleep. And this is when you can turn to the whole like citraline arginine nitric oxide sort of route. And we'll skip the explanation there, but effectively what happens is nitric oxide is this wonderful compound that causes vasodilation and of course that's going to aid then in transporting nutrients in and out of the cell.

Andy (1h 32m 1s):
So it has an ergen effect. The, you have a number of ways you can go about this. Some of them have more pros and cons than others and, and there are more and more data coming out specifically on citraline. More recently, if you look though in, in my opinion, the most consistent evidence for the most consistent effect is in the supplement of beet root or beet root juice or extract or something like that. So you can find those supplements and they tend to, again, they're pretty effective and enhancing performance specifically anything moderate to longer duration endurance performance. And they are not a stimulant so they won't ruin your sleep that much.

Huberman (1h 32m 38s):
You know, one note of caution for those of you that are interested in citraline or or beat Ruth because they are in the arginine pathway, if you're somebody who has a predisposition to cold source, oral cold source that is, or other forms of cold sore, that because activation of the arginine pathway can exacerbate some of the neural related aspects of, of cold sores. And that's because the viruses that cause those cold sores actually live on neurons, then you wanna be very cautious with citraline, especially high dose citraline. I can really amplify that. The cold sore response. What about non stimulant yet? Focus enhancing supplements.

Huberman (1h 33m 19s):
Things like Alpha GPC for example. I routinely used 300 to 600 milligrams of Alpha GPC prior to hard physical training. Typically weight training. But occasionally I'll take 300 milligrams of alpha GC prior to a mental work bout less often these days cuz I kind of reserve it for physical training and I don't tend to use it every day. Maybe once every, you know, third or fourth workout combined with caffeine. So that combination is pretty, pretty potent I find. And so technically because it's a cholinergic agonist, it's not a stimulant in the traditional sense, but it has a focusing and an alertness promoting aspect to it.

Huberman (1h 34m 5s):
What are your thoughts on those sorts of compounds?

Andy (1h 34m 7s):
There's not much human perfor exercise performance data on those. There are certainly cognitive functioning tests on those. So you're not gonna find a lot of information. No, though there isn't none. We actually will use many of these substances, you could globally call them neutropics, which is, you know, any substance that specifically will enhance brain function is a rough way to think about it. We'll use them prior to more challenging bouts of training. This is something that we'll pull out, say on the sparring day only, or the most important training session or a session when you're trying to work on pitch command or when you're trying to enhance work on your shot as a basketball player or you're really trying to improve a, a certain swing as a golfer or something like that.

Andy (1h 34m 51s):
But we do not use them every day. We do not use 'em with every person. So yeah, we will use those. They're not stimulants, but they can be performance enhancing. And another kind of way to think about this is if you're in the case of caloric restriction, so whether you're you're trying to lose weight or we're actually trying to control weight for, you know, weight purposes in terms of a sports where you have to be in a certain weight class or something like that, well we may not be able to give you food. In fact, we may not be able to give you stimulants because of the sleep thing or because we're already like max on a stimulants now we can go this route. And so you least like mentally, you're a little bit there and you're more likely to be alert and focused and you can train harder despite the fact we didn't actually change fuel.

Andy (1h 35m 31s):
Now that's a little bit of a short game in terms of that's not your permanent solution. You eventually need to bring calories up or you know, whatever other train you're training or whatever you're going to do. But it can work in a nice short pinch.

Huberman (1h 35m 44s):
I'm very interested to learn from you about fatigue reducers and I'm hoping that rodeo Rose will come up in the conversation.

Andy (1h 35m 51s):
Yeah, great. Let's just start right there then. There's actually a lot of research on this, despite most people not having heard of it. I think I mentioned in a previous episode, I've used it a lot over many, many years. You have to be a little bit careful of it. There's, well first of all, no we, and we should have said this at the onset, no supplement is the panacea, right? Nothing's gonna work for everything in rodeo is no, no different. It can have a number of effects and if you look across the literature, you're gonna find generally somewhere between a small benefit to little benefit, but not often is it detrimental with a few exceptions. I know of a handful of papers that would be two specifically where it may actually reduce muscular endurance.

Andy (1h 36m 34s):
Okay, fine. If you think about what's happening is, one of the benefits that has been seen so far with Rolo is, is helpful at managing cortisol, but cortisol suppression is not a necessarily a good thing. We talked about how if you do an acute battle stress, cortisol will go go way up. And that is a sign of of acute stress. However, a sign of long-term excessive stress is cortisol suppression. And so this is a, a thing to be really careful of is if you're feeling down or lethargic or tired and you think your adrenals are messed up and then you start taking cortisol modulators, you could be making the problem worse because now your cortisol is actually suppressed and now you're taking these things to blunted or keep it low and, and in your, you continue to feel lethargic and, and lack of desire and libido and focus and, and sort of all these things.

Andy (1h 37m 22s):
So cortisol is not a bad thing. We want this to be going up and down in the amounts that we want. So if we're, we're thinking about like for example, waking up, you would want generally something like a 50% reduction in the first hour in terms of cortisol concentrations. However, if you're extremely suppressed already going down is is only gonna be a problem. So Rhodiola is, is has a, a good evidence base to support it for that. You'll see actually a number of of studies that have looked at it in a whole host of areas for benefits. So something good to do. The difficult part with Ola, to be quite honest, is getting it from a high quality brand and source. It's difficult to get as a single source, which is a very, very important thing to do with supplements, is try to get them sourced alone.

Andy (1h 38m 8s):
OLA typically comes in combination with any other herbals or other stuff, adrenal support and etc, et cetera. And also then getting 'em then third party certified, which for most folks is not necessary. But for any athletes that need to go through drug testing systems, you should not take any supplement at all that does not have some sort of third party certification. So those are the challenges. That being said, if you've ever ran into somebody who's taken Rodeo ola and they're like, it didn't do anything for me, it, it's possible that's, you know, nothing works for everyone. It also could be just very poor quality sourcing. So if you look at the, there have been a number of papers on its perception of fatigue and you, you've sort of mentioned that you felt pretty immediate effects of taking, I've taken her a few times.

Huberman (1h 38m 55s):
Yeah, I'm fairly sensitive of supplements, but I've started taking Ola before workouts and found that I could push much harder, much longer through the workout. Normally I would, or typically before taking it, that is in sessions where I did not take it, I would be able to work out very hard for 20 minutes or so. The next 10 minutes I could get some work output and then the remaining period of time it was kind of a tapering off. Now granted, these are very intense training sessions. These are not the endurance training sessions, these are the weight training sessions that one one time per week per body part type sessions. What I've noticed is I can complete the entire 60 minutes with, with minimal fatigue.

Huberman (1h 39m 39s):
Now, I mean obviously I hit fatigues within sets and of course, you know, I you remain human despite taking it. But I found to be very useful and I've been using it whenever I use Alpha GC prior, prior to workouts. Yeah. And I've been impressed by by it overall. I do wanna highlight something that you said because I think it's so, so vitally important, which is that using single ingredient formulations for most things is critical to figuring out what works for you, what doesn't, what dosages you need. Being able to take things two on one off, two days on, one day off. For instance, being able to increase dosage in the morning and then com maybe reduce the dosage and combined with something else in the afternoon.

Huberman (1h 40m 19s):
Single ingredient formulations are pretty much the only way to do that. There's perhaps only one supplement that I take at all, and that's Athletic Greens as there have been a regular podcast sponsor for a long time, that is a cocktail of many, many things and those are all adaptogens as well as some probiotics and vitamins and things like that. So I'm not opposed to blends where the blends include a lot of nutrients that are synergistic, but for all pill capsule based supplements where I'm looking for a very targeted effect and it's not just about sub foundational nutrition. I really believe strongly that single ingredient formulations are the way that you can build a rational approach to supplementation and also make adjustments if something isn't making you feel better.

Huberman (1h 41m 2s):
And also make adjustments if something's really working for you. So for instance, some people might take a Alpha GPC 300 milligrams and not feel anything, go up to 600 milligrams, not feel anything, maybe just feel kind of, eh, they don't like it. Other people like myself, took 300 milligrams of Alpha gpc the first time was like, wow, this really puts me in the zone. But I wanna be really careful how often I use it. I did mention I go up to 600 milligrams occasionally, but that really puts me on the outer threshold of kind of overall levels of focus and amped up such that if I drink too much caffeine, it can tilt me over the edge. So I encourage people to become scientists of themselves and the only way to do that is to try and limit the number of variables. And the final point is that I think that single ingredient formulations are by far the best in terms of changing things over time.

Huberman (1h 41m 48s):
You know, this could be women during their menstrual cycle might find that during certain phases of the cycle they're more sensitive to certain things than not others. And for men and women, it may be that, you know, certain times of year even and certain supplements might go better, closer to sleep, some earlier in the day and on and on and on. There's just no real way, in my opinion, to have a supplementation protocol that involves lots and lots of blends, one or two blends, okay. But lots of blends. I think that's, I actually think that's potentially dangerous territory.

Andy (1h 42m 21s):
Yeah, I mean, just take Ola as a good example. I know a, a new meta-analysis came out just in the last few months looking at it. And they found in general, you see again, a slight to moderate improvement and everything from power output to fatigue resistant antioxidant effects to endurance performance. And so it's like, okay, great. Maybe there's a little bit here. Now let's say you went to do it and the only way you could access Rhodiola is in combination with that and some lions main and you know, some other, these adaptagins. And it's like, well, wait a minute. I just wanted to take this to get a better workout, but now it also came with this stimulant or this cortisol suppressor or cortisol activator. Well now all of a sudden you can't take it at night or you can't take it in the morning cuz you're already, you already had coffee.

Andy (1h 43m 6s):
Your, your options are just way limited. So I think the biggest part of all that is you, if something doesn't feel good, you have absolutely no idea. You don't know if it was Ola, you don't know if it was the bus well unit that's in there. You don't know if it was any of the other things that were smashed in there. Or it could be something as simple as the, the, the citric acid they use like some other combination of thinking. Now here you are thinking that some supplement that actually works for you doesn't, and you throw that out of your repertoire for the rest of your life, which is, you know, not the biggest crime, but it's not needed and you're not really going to know. So yeah, I, I fully stamped, you can look back at my course lectures for the last decade and you will see like stamped number one on the supplemental sections is make sure you're taking single ingredient supplements at all costs.

Andy (1h 43m 53s):
The last part about that too is you're more likely to ensure the amount that is on the label is correct. So if you're taking OLA and it says, you know, it's a hundred milligrams in there and if that's only thing that's in there, you're, you're more likely than not to actually get something closed. Now they're never perfect, but it'll be closed if it's in a combination of 20 other things, you actually don't have any idea if that's in there. In fact, there have been many papers on melatonin and vitamin D and a number of other supplements in which when you actually just pull 'em off the shelf, these are, these are standard studies where they will go on and buy said like 20 to 25 different supplements in the case of melatonin and we'll actually measure the amount of melatonin actually in them.

Andy (1h 44m 36s):
And, and despite the fact that the label says five milligrams, they can be up to a 500 to a thousand fold actual concentration in that supplement. And then you wonder why some people react great to melatonin and some people that absolutely destroys you. And this is also why like, we'll actually we'll see this constantly where people will have like 500 times the upper limit of melatonin the morning after when the half-life is supposed to be more like 90 minutes, it should be totally gone. But we're seeing extremely high and not even talking like double, I'm talking 10, 20, 30 x the upper limit range from melatonin the next morning. And then it's like, well what are you taking? He's like, oh, I got this melatonin at X store or X website. And you're like, holy cow.

Andy (1h 45m 17s):
So I'm, I'm not opposed to melatonin theoretically, but you have to be careful with that one in particular. So any supplement has that to be true. So you, you wanna buy them from as many places as you can that are high quality and if they are third party tested, even if you're not a performance athlete, I wanna stress this, even if you're not a performance athlete, third party certified and test the supplements are, you're less likely to just just get wildly high concentrations or low concentrations of active ingredients. And so relative to other ones whom you might get for cheaper, but you could be totally wrecking yourself by getting, you know, 50 milligrams of melatonin every night and not realizing it. And so then of course the next morning you drown yourself in caffeine and then you can see what death cycle you're in now.

Huberman (1h 46m 1s):
Yeah. And people could look for a third-party certification on the packaging and some websites will allow you to zoom in on the bottle beforehand. It, it's largely listed on, on certain vendor websites. Yeah. A brief point about supplement cost and blends, and I promise this will be a brief point. Different ingredients, meaning different types of supplements have widely varying costs in order to, you know, create to, to get their manufacture them. So oftentimes what you'll find is that blends will include the least amount of the most expensive ingredient, right? Not always the case. There are some, there are certain exceptions to this and I mentioned some blends that I like a few minutes ago that are for foundational nutrition, adaptogens and probiotics, athletic greens of course just being one of several examples out there.

Huberman (1h 46m 52s):
But when it comes to say a sleep blend or a pre-workout blend, there are some decent products out there, but a lot of them tend to put in more of the least expensive ingredients and less of the ones that you're actively seeking. And so those tend to be, caffeine tends to be a kind of a buffer against the other things. Meaning if you have pre-workout, putting caffeine in there isn't necessarily a bad thing, but if it has five other things in there, oftentimes what manufacturers will cheat on is the actual amount of the things that are costly. Yeah. So again, single ingredient formulations for 80% of your supplements I think is really the way to go. And the other thing that I know is gonna come up as we're talking about all these supplements is this issue of dependency.

Huberman (1h 47m 37s):
I often get this question and when I solicited for to, for questions on social media in anticipation of this episode, number of people said, okay, Sophia, take a sleep formulation. Do I need to take it every night? If I don't take it, will I have an incredibly hard time sleeping? If I take a pre-workout every time I train, will will I need it? It's a great question. Some people will take supplement holidays as they may be called for a couple of days each week back to back. Some people take them straight through. I myself take a a sleep cocktail. We've described this, it's magnesium theanine and things. This is not one ingredient. These are multiple ingredients, in fact, precisely because some people who have sleep walking and vivid dream issues can't take theanine before bed.

Huberman (1h 48m 17s):
In any case, I've had times when I either forgot my supplements, that's rare, or I just didn't have what I needed or just simply took a break for a night and it was not a problem. But in terms of pre-workout, I do think that people become dependent on being in that really ramped up state. But I don't think we view all this as like true dependency kind of like addiction. Totally right? I mean, I define addiction as a progressive narrowing of the things that bring you pleasure. So, you know, I, I suppose people could get addicted to pre-workout, but it seems a little unlikely. More likely there would be a dependency such that if you didn't have your pre-workout might feel like, oh, you're not motivated to train. So what are your thoughts on taking little holidays from supplements and varying the frequency of supplement intake in particular as it relates to stimulants and fatigue reducers?

Andy (1h 49m 6s):
The end goal anytime I coach somebody is to get them into a physiological state in which they require no or close to no supplementation. That's the target. We should really be in a position to where our lifestyle, our sunlight exposure, our stress management, our physical activity, our sleep and our hydration and our whole food nutrition provide us almost everything we need. Now look, again, there are some foundational items that we can give people. We've put together a little bundle actually for this that of basic things that you can go look at. But that's the goal, right? So the target is to be let your physiology run the guy, your physiology is way smarter than we are.

Andy (1h 49m 48s):
Even if I take a bunch of biomarkers from you, your physiology still knows better than those few markers can tell me. So that's always where we're ending up. I actually personally don't like people being in a position that they have to take a supplement for anything. So I don't like it if you have to take a supplement to have a good night of sleep, I don't like it. If you have to have a supplement to train, we will use any of these stimulants very, very carefully with any of the athletes we work with and certainly for the non-athletes because at least the athletes, we have an end date, we have a fight scheduled, we have a season, we have a game, you're gonna pitch whatever. When you don't have that, it's sort of like you end this endless cycle of, oh, you're just gonna do that all day every day.

Andy (1h 50m 28s):
Mm we don't really need to be in that spot. So what I, the way that I describe my philosophy is I will use those short-term tactics to symptom manage if I have to. So if somebody comes to me and like, you're feeling awful and we've gotta get through the hump, okay, great, maybe we'll give you something for sleep immediately to get you sleeping. That allows us to then come back and work on the causal problem, right? So this is what is, why are you having a hard time sleeping anyways? If you have to take a a nine cocktail supplement to sleep, then all we're doing is, is blinding the reason why are you in that position to begin with, right? So we see this all the time, whether it is sleep problems, whether it is cortisol or testosterone, the question is, well why is that low?

Andy (1h 51m 9s):
Now we may give you something again to manage it immediately, but the task, the, the mystery I'm going to try to unveil is why, why is it there to begin with? This could be something like this is natural for you and your lack of energy is something else. Or it could be actually, it is not a natural level for you, but something is suppressing it. Any number of, you've got some infection going on, there's some all allergic reaction to something in your environment. There's a, you know, mold mercury like that one comes up a lot. You'll see mercury in folks and that's causing a lot of problems or any number of heavy metals or toxins, any host of things, psychological distress, bad daily habit, you don't ever see the sun. Like you don't ever sweat, you don't ever drink.

Andy (1h 51m 51s):
We was talking about so many things. So I'm always gonna hunt for that and I hate using this phrase, it's highly maligned for a good reason but root cause. Alright, so we're trying to find that it's like are we making sure that we're not causing this problem? And I'm not going to want to give you a supplement to cover up something if we're not even trying to solve the problem of what's being there. That being said, am I that concerned about people taking a multivitamin just all throughout? No, not really. Am I concerned about people taking creatine? No. Like, go ahead tho. Those ones are generally pretty fine to to just take, but anything else I want a reason. I really don't like giving people anything in a super physiological concentration or a superfood concentration, right?

Andy (1h 52m 36s):
So again, an amount you wouldn't find in a normal food dosage unless we have really a specific reason. Some of these things are more problematic, others are less problematic. So when an an to answer the question of dependency, you have a combination of actual physiological dependency caffeine, like that actually creates a physiological dependency versus a emotional or psychological dependency or just a, I like drinking this. Like that's my habit, that's my routine. There's a fancy scientific phrase for that, but it doesn't matter. So yeah, we, we want to get off that and like, again, my personal philosophy is I don't want you depending upon anything, I want to create extremely resilient people and I want to create physiological resilience. We actually have a fancy little algorithm we use to, to measure that in people.

Andy (1h 53m 18s):
And so we can actually calculate that number and the goal of us is to push that number higher so that we don't have to have anything, so many situations pop up in your real life that you're not gonna have your supplement or you're not gonna have your routine or you're not gonna have your journal or whatever. But also for the long term, I don't want to create a situation in which this is a short term success that you have to now do that the rest of your life. No, let's just get outta the way, let's fix the problem. If we, if there is something symptom management that's real while we're actually searching for better foundational habits. The last thing I wanna say about this is if you're only covering symptom, you're really missing signal, right? Which is, if you're constantly tired throughout the day and all you're doing is giving yourself a, a number of alpha, GPCs and caffeines, et cetera, even though there's good literature, okay, are you really just using that to allow your poor sleep hygiene to happen?

Andy (1h 54m 10s):
If I took those away, I bet you you would actually start addressing your sleep if that's the cause, right? Or I, your, your stress or your poor hydration, like you would go hunting for the problem. And so like you wanna walk a fine line here of going like, Hey look, is an athletic greens supplement that big a deal? No, probably not. But wait a minute, am I actually now covering up the pain point that is maybe needed? It's a signal to actually get my ass in gear to go make one of these changes, whatever it needs to be. So I know I've got like a little bit meta on you and a little bit philosophical. That's honestly how I approach it. Yeah,

Huberman (1h 54m 46s):
I think it's really important that a friend of mine who's a physician has a great saying, which is better living through chemistry still requires better living. Oh

Andy (1h 54m 55s):
Boy, that's, that's cool then. That's

Huberman (1h 54m 57s):
So good. You know, and it pertains also to things like antidepressants and ADHD drugs and things of that sort. Most all of those things were developed as tools to allow people to move from a maladaptive state. Okay, maladaptive is hard to define, but think about in any domain of life you can either be back on your heels flatfooted or forward center of mass. And there are times when people are so compromised neurochemically that they need to use pharmacology in order to get into a flatfooted position. Yeah. You know, they're really back on their heels flat-footed or forward center or mass. But the idea was always that those things were developed as things to allow people to engage in the sorts of behaviors that can produce the same sorts of neurochemical shifts.

Huberman (1h 55m 37s):
And if people are thinking, well what sorts of behaviors can induce these neurochemical shifts? I'll just zoom out myself for a moment here and say, I am a big proponent, I believe you are as well, if I may, in doing behavioral tools first, whenever possible, really establishing good habits, the dos and don'ts, which we've talked a lot about in this series and in this episode. Then excellent nutrition, which involves dos and don'ts, volume, food choice, timing, all the factors, and then also supplementation. And also there sometimes a case for prescription drugs, certainly and often brain machine interface or body machine interface measuring stuff using devices.

Huberman (1h 56m 20s):
But the, the foundation of behaviors and good nutrition are really truly foundational and it's hard in anything to skip steps, but supplements and prescription drugs are one place where people often skip steps and then they don't, they don't actually learn how to cultivate the best behavioral practices, including the don'ts as you mentioned. And then just one more point along these lines, you know, you, you talked about taking anything for energy is really disruptive to the system and it is because especially caffeine, while it has its uses and even health benefits, it's really borrowing it. It's against the adenosine system with interest. And so because caffeine acts as an adenosine antagonist effectively while caffeine is present in those receptors, you don't feel as sleepy, you have more energy, your reaction time goes down, memories enhanced focus performance of all kinds.

Huberman (1h 57m 12s):
Yes. But then when that caffeine is dislodged from the receptor, then the adenosine can act even more potently at those receptors. So it's sort of like being able to borrow against the normal variations in wakefulness and sleep. And this is why we encourage people if they're not training first thing in the morning to push their caffeine intake out about 90 to 120 minutes after waking so they can clear some of that adenosine in the morning, which tends to happen even after we wake up. People can listen to episodes on master's sleep or perfect sleep or the caffeine episode to understand more about that. But the, the final thing I just wanna say here and then it, it prompts a question is, you know, in thinking about supplement protocols, I think a lot of people assume that once they start taking something, they're gonna have to take it all the time.

Huberman (1h 57m 60s):
And one idea perhaps is that people have some alpha GC around that they could take. And granted it'd be great if people could try things without having to buy a whole product. I think companies hopefully are listening to this and will give people a sample to see if something works for them and then give them an opportunity to try it to have things around, but not necessarily assume you're gonna take it every time, right? Some things you take every day, foundational nutrition supplements for instance, but then also to take a look at how well you're eating or not eating, right? At times when I'm eating much better, I consuming, you know, low sugar fermented foods which are great for the gut microbiome, I consume less probiotics. If ever I've been really compromised for whatever reason, then I will take pill form probiotics.

Huberman (1h 58m 43s):
But I don't take those all the time because I get them from food and from certain gr you know, green strengths like athletic greens and so forth. So I think that nutrition and supplementation are, are tethered in this way in my mind. And I don't think that most people think of supplementation as something that where you can induce a lot of variability in when and how you take them. But as far as I'm concerned, as long as they're single ingredient formulations, you can be, you can use supplements once a week if you want. You can use 'em seven days a week. You could use them twice a day, four times a day every day. Or you could use them not at all. Agreed. Yeah.

Andy (1h 59m 18s):
Some of them will have an effect randomly like that, others will not. And we talked about creatine being one of them. It's if you're going to take it once or so a week, then there's, I mean basically

Huberman (1h 59m 30s):
No benefit. That's a very good point. Very no creatine.

Andy (1h 59m 33s):
Beta alanine is another fantastic example of something you need to take consistently if you want some sort of benefit it needs to be built up in muscle. We need to use that to create carine, which is what's actually gonna help us with our fatigue management. That's why we call it like an acid buffer. So in our previous metabolism episode we talked about that being a major cause of fatigue. The wonderful part, one of the reasons why beta alanine works so effectively is it blocks that buildup. So that is an example of another one that you would want to take. Other things like fish oil, you could certainly skip a day here and there. It wouldn't be that big a deal. I also do support your comment of you can take absolutely none of these things and and be just fine in terms of, and we'll come back maybe to beta Alan in a second in terms of some other fun stuff.

Andy (2h 0m 18s):
My colleague Greg Gki ran a really cool number of studies looking at how exercise actually alters the gut microbiome. And this is actually an area that we've, I probably have 300 stool samples sitting in my freezer in

Huberman (2h 0m 30s):
My lab. Oh goodness. Another reason to pause before entering your lab.

Andy (2h 0m 34s):
Yeah. Another reason to not apply to come be one of my graduate students, unless you wanna deal with that. We actually have a number, we've applied for a couple of grants to look more into this specifically with females. So hopefully we can get that funded. But nonetheless you can actually see something like pretty traumatic. And I say that word on purpose changes in the gut microbiome. This one in particular study I was thinking of that Greg did is he looked at the, the changes pre-post and ultramarathon and even within a single bout of exercise, I can't remember some of the markers, but I know one of the markers was specifically increased by like 14000% after a single bout of exercise. Now this is an ultra marathon, this is like, like totally absurd amount of exercise relative to what normal people would do would be, but that number I remember like it was like 14229% or like something, some random number like that

Huberman (2h 1m 27s):
Of something meaningful.

Andy (2h 1m 28s):
Yeah, something meaningful. I can't remember which marker that was that had changed. I know streptococcus was in there, streptococcus went up like maybe something more like 30 or 40 or 50%. So the point is we haven't even had the proper time and we don't to even launch into the gut microbiome supplementation, there needs to be ultra specific. You wouldn't be best served to just jump in and take random things there. That's, it's a whole area of emerging science. We know very, very, very little about it but there is a number of actionable things one could do there. So probably something to not mess with would certainly work with a qualified physician. If you think you have something going on clinical or you know, some actual problem there, don't work with someone who's not a specialist, a medical doctor there, but just randomly assigning a bunch of probiotics or prebiotics without intention is, is maybe the next forefront of human performance research.

Andy (2h 2m 25s):
But we'll have to maybe come back in a few years and dive into that in detail or perhaps you can bring somebody on as an expert in that to discuss that.

Huberman (2h 2m 31s):
Yeah, gut microbiome as fascinating. I think of sleep as the most powerful performance enhancing activity. Of course you still have to do the activity. Yeah, I consider it foundational, like it basically raises the tide on mental health, physical health performance of all kinds. There's recent data that during sleep your body goes through all its various forms of metabolism possible. Yep. Which is amazing. So it's measured from breath in, human subjects, breath metabolites in human subjects. So obviously if one is thinking about supplementation and wondering, okay, what's what's the best supplement to enhance performance?

Huberman (2h 3m 12s):
You gave some great rationale for why creatine would be an excellent choice provided to your eating well and hydrating well. And then to my mind, the next thing on the list would be anything that allows you to improve the quality and maybe even the duration of your sleep. Although if you wake up and you feel rested throughout the day and only need a short nap in the afternoon, not everyone needs one. But then generally that means you're feeling okay. People sometimes get flipped onto this idea that they have insomnia. Insomnia is excessive daytime sleepiness where you're falling asleep during the day that's insomnia could also be narcolepsy but that's insomnia. But supplementation to improve the quality or duration of sleep or both seems to me like the most direct route even though actually technically it's an indirect route to to performance enhancement.

Huberman (2h 4m 2s):
And then thinking about things that increase alertness and stimulants and fa and fatigue reducers. Do you think that's a good logic?

Andy (2h 4m 9s):
Yeah, we go to absurd lengths to dial sleep in as much as we can. I mean the honest answer is like truly absurd. This is a conflict of interest that my, my company, I'm a part of this absolute rest is the name of that company. We actually go out to your house and run a full clinical grade sleep study in you, your bedroom on you and run that over multiple nights. So instead of having to go to a sleep clinic and and have it done in this weird hospital room or sort of setting with these people looking at you through a mirror, it's like totally creepy. That is important because that's the only way to truly determine how you are sleeping. Now that said, the technology of wearable trackers is getting better. In fact, I would actually predict those things will reach a level of accuracy equivalent to the PSG in the next couple of years and probably will get FDA approval.

Andy (2h 4m 55s):
So be able to diagnose officially sleep disorders. That's my total, my my prediction from some inside information. I don't know that to be true but it is getting a lot better right now. Those wearables are not accurate enough to meet that threshold. So the we do is we bring out basically all the equipment to do that. So we'll come in and do that. Now once we understand exactly how you are sleeping, the next question is to answer why are you sleeping that way? And so this is a full fourfold system. Number one is we're going to look at biology, which means we're going to take saliva and blood and we're looking at everything from neurotransmitters, concentrations to vitamins, b6, b12, et cetera that are important for sleep performance.

Andy (2h 5m 35s):
So we're gonna see is that, is it a physiological problem? Is there something happen there is cortisol D h E ratio that we've previously talked about or is something like that off? If it's not physiology then we're going on the next one which is environmental. We run a full environmental scan of your bedroom during those nights of sleep that were there. And that's really important because we can look at everything from dander and pollen and allergens that are in the air. A quick tip here is wash your sheets at least once a week. One of the common, most common places that people get allergens in the air is actually from accumulation on your sheets. So if you clean those more often you'll be in a better spot. And next one, the next one there also is like keep your, I'm sorry this hurts my heart.

Andy (2h 6m 18s):
I don't even vi I in in truthfulness, I violate this but keep your pets out of your bedroom and certainly keep them off your bed. Our our ghost face killer is my dog and no's, my other one, they don't go on my bed but they're right next to my bed so we violate that one. But full environmental scan includes all those things. Of course there's, we measure light and temperature and humidity and everything else that's going on in the room. Volatile organics that are coming out of the mattress for mal the Hyde lead out outta the wall. Like all of these things that could potentially disrupt your sleep and we wanna make sure that none of those things are kicking on. We see this constantly. People will have things like trying to be cool and they wanna be cold at night cuz that's important and so they'll turn an air conditioner on or a fan but the air conditioner kicking on and off at night and actually can shoot you out of various sleep stages.

Andy (2h 7m 7s):
So you wanna be really careful now it's going, the last metric on that is actually co2. And so what you remember from our metabolism discussion is when you exhale your breathing out co2, well if your room is closed and the ventilation isn't great, the amount of CO2 in your room starts to build up. And we actually very specifically know the threshold based on information collected from the international space station. Actually we know the threshold at which CO2 crosses and starts disrupting sleep. So we wanna make sure that you're not sitting in this CO2 bath in front of your face and then breathing it back in and and disrupting your sleep. So environment is the second one. The third one is actually now psychology. So one of the members on our team is a Harvard MD in psychiatry and and put together an entire sleep scan survey.

Andy (2h 7m 51s):
So we run through all that to see if there's anxiety, depression, anything like that psychologically going on. And then the fir fourth one there is if you have some sort of actual sleep pathology. And so this again will include some eye tracking stuff that we can use. So we take all those data, they go back to our team, we work in combination with with Steve Lockey from Harvard who's done a ton of stuff. He actually set up a lot of the circadian rhythm stuff in the International Space station as well himself, Jeffrey drummer and md, PhD et cetera. And all of these folks in a room go over your data, identify what's going on and build action plans off of that. Occasionally those action plans will include supplementation but only if necessary we're really gonna try to come back and work through a system to improve the sleep however is needed.

Andy (2h 8m 33s):
So I realize that is not totally accessible for a lot of people but like if you really need to go to the end of the earth to figure it out, sleep that service is available.

Huberman (2h 8m 45s):
Absolute RAs sounds like an amazing tool given that most people won't be able to use it or access it, although we will provide a link in case people are interested in it and do want to try it. You mentioned a few things that I think everyone should assay their sleeping environment for and determine whether or not they are hindering their sleep without realizing it. For instance, the air conditioning going on and off or this could be heater going on and off or central he heating or cooling unit. This could be keeping the room dark, this could be cleaning your sheets. Certainly that doesn't require that one sign up for absolute rest. So cleaning one sheets routinely keeping pets out of the bedroom as you admitted you don't entirely different opinions about that but if you're having sleep issues, the dander from animals may, may be part of those issues.

Huberman (2h 9m 37s):
And then one that I'll just add, which I think is pretty interesting is there's some beautiful data out of Michael Truman's lab at Columbia Medical School in New York on negative ionization. And this sounds pretty wacky. Yeah kind of new agey, I'm sure some are like a negative ionization but listen, the Turman lab is a serious laboratory focus on circadian biology for many decades now negative ion concentrations are higher near coastal locations. So if you've ever gone to the sea or gone on vacation and you sleep better near a body of water, that's actually a real thing and there are negative ionization machines but there are also some things that one can do in order to increase the negative ion concentration in their sleeping environment that are nearly zero cost if not zero cost.

Huberman (2h 10m 22s):
You can look those up online and we probably will do an entire episode about this in the future. But I think what you described for absolute rest really highlights a more general set of themes that I think are really important, which is your sleep environment is an environment, it's got a lot going on in it and it's worth running through the checklist that you described and asking you know, where where are things you know maybe not optimized but where am I really getting in my own way in terms of sleep. All of this, again being related to the fact that getting excellent sleep consistently is a com will completely transform everything that you do and not getting excellent sleep consistently, which is a challenge for so, so many people. Yeah, will also transform everything that you do and think and feel but in the negative

Andy (2h 11m 3s):
Direction. Yeah I can also offer a few tips on sleep based on things we find most consistently for those that I can't go through. The whole protocol, one quick little actually app called time shifter is really cool for anyone that's dealing with consistent travel and jet lag. So you can go in, enter your location, your time where you're going with the location and then it'll actually back calculate and it'll give you full light stimulant food hydration and stuff protocol and you just follow along with that and we've used that for many years actually. Especially when traveling to like Abu Dhabi for Vice and Mongolia and and Brazil for the Olympics and sort of all over the place. So that's, I think that app is still available, I hope so it's, it's great.

Andy (2h 11m 46s):
A nice tool. A couple of things we've found major, if you're dealing with acid reflux, so if you're someone who has problems like that, you can just elevate the head of your bed by like six inches. So if you, you know, put little piece of wood or something underneath it, you can also buy very inexpensive pillows that can elevate that. Now that's not solving the problem but at least can help you sleep it whether it's just that night or if it's a consistent problem you can do there. If you're snoring, like I said, that's not really benign, you should probably take a look at that. Your first step there is mouth tape if that doesn't work you can go through what's called myofunctional therapy, which I dunno if you've covered that before, but it's basically tongue exercises and that can be quite effective specifically for people who have problems with REM sleep.

Andy (2h 12m 31s):
So myofunctional therapy, it's just a hand, it's kinda like you do like depending on the protocol, some tongue exercises kind of in the morning, afternoon or night and that takes a while to be honest. You're probably going to need at least six weeks before you start seeing anything. But that actually is, is pretty well demonstrated to help with sleep. So you can probably Google, we could find a link for for exact protocols. I don't wanna describe all them but yeah you're gonna strengthen your tongue so that it stops falling in the back of your neck and waking you up at night. So that's a really free, easy free protocol to use if you're struggling with, it could be insomnia but it could be just things like when you get into bed you're super tired and you can't fall asleep or things like that.

Andy (2h 13m 12s):
Kind of a basic rule of thumb we use is only two things happen in your bed and if you can make sure those are the only two things you do in your bed, the problems of falling asleep or insomnia tend to go down. Those two things are you have sex and you sleep and nothing else goes down in your bed. And so you can make that environment very special and that can help quite effectively improve your ability to fall asleep and then not wake up early. So keeping that environment specific to what it's for can be effective. The only other thing I could think of is, and I, I hate to say this cuz it's not super practical but it's just quite clear at this point sleeping with a partner in your bed, it's just not very good for sleep.

Andy (2h 13m 52s):
So

Huberman (2h 13m 53s):
Good luck with that one.

Andy (2h 13m 54s):
I know you can do a couple of things if it helps, you can get two smaller beds and put them right next to each other if you can actually have separate sheets, that alone can be helpful. So if you get, you know, I mean if you're on a king size bed or something, and again I know some people they're just like there's no chance but if you wanna know the, the cost for your like the effect

Huberman (2h 14m 15s):
You're gonna end your relationship

Andy (2h 14m 17s):
Lose your, lose your loved one

Huberman (2h 14m 19s):
Ideally please don't, please don't. Oh my goodness.

Andy (2h 14m 23s):
So the only last thing I wanna mention here is something that's popped up just a few times recently but you're going to see more of which is called ortho somnia. So that is a term that is people are growing concerned over which is wearables and sleep trackers causing sleep issues. So people be basically become too obsessed with optimizing maximizing scores and that alone will actually, it's actually you so you learn when to wake up and so you have actually an anticipatory response when many hours prior to waking up. So if you actually learn to have a little bit of a, what's that little molecule of like excitement and reward? Oh dopamine, that's the one if you start getting that cuz you wake up and you get super excited to check your score or your phone, it is the same thing if you check your phone or Twitter or whatever immediately morning, that'll actually start carving back your wake up time because you start launching it so it, it can ruin sleep becoming too obsessed.

Andy (2h 15m 19s):
So what I'll say is if you're going to use a sleep tracker and you just like don't care, you wanna check it and you have fun with it, great but if like you are really, really, really interested in it and you pay a lot of attention to it, don't check your sleep score for at least the first 60 minutes after waking up and then you know that should help you.

Huberman (2h 15m 36s):
That's a great tool. I think they'll and piece of advice I think generally because I think a lot of people are waking up in the middle of the night checking their phone two or three times per night and I'm kind of wondering why they're doing that and I'm guessing it's this anticipatory wake up circuit. Yeah,

Andy (2h 15m 49s):
You absolutely should use either your night mode or do not disturb or airplane mode or something overnight

Huberman (2h 15m 55s):
Or leave it outta

Andy (2h 15m 55s):
The room. Yeah, I mean if you have to wake up and like some people have like a, a family member who's maybe not in great health and so they have to get their phone around in case they call or things like that. So I get it, you're like I can't leave it out, leave it in there, leave it in, do not disturb and enter and their phone number or whoever's phone number so only they can get through but keep it black and white. So if you do have to look at your phone at night, you see black and white and you do not have notifications so make sure that there's no notification for no email and no dm, like get all that stuff off your screen. And so you look at the, did anybody call, did anybody text of importance? What time is it? No emergency going on black and white. Okay, right back to sleep. So that can help a little

Huberman (2h 16m 35s):
Bit. One of the supplements that I found is extremely useful for being able to fall back asleep if I've woken up in the middle of the night and for some reason can't and is also very effective for enhancing sleep when one is ingesting fewer carbohydrates, an issue that a lot of people run into or for people that are fasting for many hours before sleep, you know people are trying to not eat anything within you know, two to four hours. But is Inositol 900 milligrams of my Oh yeah, myo Inositol. I, I find again this is anata to be clear, if I wake up in the middle of the night and I've taken 900 milligrams of Inositol before initially falling asleep that I fall back asleep much more easily.

Huberman (2h 17m 18s):
So that's why I've added 900 milligrams of Inositol to my so-called sleep stack. I've also tried just taking it alone and it works well alone but it works better of course with the Mag three and eight Apigenin Phin sleep stack stack. The the also in terms of tools for sleep, the the app revere that was developed by my colleague Dr. David Spiegel who's a medical doctor at Stanford Psychiatry, Stanford School of Medicine psychiatry, there is a free trial, there's a nominal cost if you use it month to month. But the data are really strong that people that use that, I think it's eight to 11 minute sleep hypnosis once a week and it doesn't have to be in the middle of the night when you wake up, really helps improve people's ability to fall asleep quickly, stay asleep, fall back asleep if they wake up in the middle of the night in some cases curing insomnia in other cases really just helping people with their general sleep issues.

Huberman (2h 18m 11s):
And I mentioned this because obviously it's a technology, it's not a supplement but I know that some people are supplement averse also if you look at by at the cost comparison between taking the sleep stack totally and the Revere app, it's pennies on the dollar really. So again, I'm a proponent of both for myself, but I realize that people have varying budgets and again, I should say as always, behavioral tools first and I I think of the rere app as as more or less a behavioral tool.

Andy (2h 18m 39s):
Yeah it's, it's really just a tool. Any of these breathwork protocols, hypnosis protocols, they're just a tool for you to touch back in with your own physiology rather than a a substance that's coming in. So I, I fully support those. We have used a number of those in in protocols. There's some other tricks that we can pull in those areas. I probably shouldn't say this, but the reality of it is depending on what's keeping you up, sometimes we recommend just getting up and getting it done. Like if it's a really, like if it's a, a project or a thing or whatever like sometimes it, it rather than laying there all night not sleeping, you can get up, get it done and then if you stay awake, fine at least the anxiety's gone.

Andy (2h 19m 26s):
Or sometimes you can actually go back to sleep cause you're like, especially if the task only literally would take like 10 or 15 minutes, it may ruin your sleep but you're, you're gonna have ruined sleep anyways so you, you can try that tool, you don't wanna pull that card very often and you have to ha be very careful with what you consider to be something worthy doing that. But that is like between me and you and nobody else here. That's a tool I have used personally more than a few times where it's just like I get an idea and I don't lose it or like the solution for something you've been noodling on for a long time pops in your head and just like in your not wanting to forget it, just get up and get it done and get on with your day.

Huberman (2h 20m 4s):
In several previous episodes you emphasized how exercise induces various adaptations depending on the type specificity, volume, intensity, et cetera of the exercise and that during exercise, the degree of adaptation that one triggers is often associated with things that normally we don't associate with exercise related health. Things like huge increases in blood pressure during exercise, huge increases in inflammatory markers, muscle damage, right? These all things all sound terrible but as you beautifully explained, all of that triggers adaptations that then bring those markers below the baseline with which they were previous to the exercise.

Huberman (2h 20m 46s):
So that's the adaptation and the recovery within the realm of supplementation and nutrition. I'm aware of a number of things, some herbal, some lipid based, other compounds that are used for various things but that are known to have a potent anti-inflammatory effect. Things like omega-3 fatty acids, ashwaganda for its effect on cortisol, although that's a bit indirect to the inflammatory pathway curcumin and things of that sort given that we want inflammation in order to trigger the adaptation response to exercise and given that we want to reduce inflammation in the recovery period, can we put together a logical framework as to when is best to take anything anti-inflammatory, whether it's supplement based or prescription or over-the-counter drug and when to strictly avoid taking any anti-inflammatory supplement or behavioral tool.

Huberman (2h 21m 46s):
You mentioned ice can reduce inflammation, that's why you don't want to do it too close to exercise anyway, I think you get the gist of the question, what about specific supplements related to inflammation and anti-inflammatory responses? What are the best ones? When should we take them? When should we avoid taking them?

Andy (2h 22m 2s):
The way that I think about it is understanding what we call the fitness fatigue model. So what I mean by that is whenever you do some sort of insult, the whole idea is for you to come back and get an adaptation. Now recovery is not adaptation, right? Recovery is recovery, adaptation is what happens after you're recovered, right? So there's a very important distinction there. Fitness fatigue model says basically you've done something and you've got an adaptation and you've enhanced fitness and by fitness in this case I mean it as a non-specific term. So you got stronger, you've improved your endurance, like whatever thing you're trying to train for. At the same time though, your fatigue elevated. So what happens is if fitness increases at the same or similar rate as fatigue, your performance actually isn't any better.

Andy (2h 22m 46s):
And so you may think, oh my program isn't working, I need to then train harder or I need to take more anti-inflammatory or whatever the things are when reality all you really need to do is reduce fatigue and if you do that your performance will increase and all the training adaptations will be actualized. So the way that we do that is a couple of things. First and foremost is actually a taper. So the the first step I think of if someone is training very, very hard and you're not seeing any results and we want to think about supplementation before I get there, I want to think about taper and deload. If you're actually training hard and sleep and everything else is taken care of. So just without going too far into taper some general, general parameters there, you wanna think about about a 50% reduction in training volume over the course of about a week for every eight weeks of training.

Andy (2h 23m 37s):
Super, super rough, right? So if you've been training hard for three months for something you might want to taper for two weeks, something like that, right? It it's sort of a rough estimate that taper, you actually don't need to reduce intensity because intensity's not the driver of fatigue. It tends to be volume. So as long as your volume is reduced by 50%, you can maintain intensity, you can maintain, in fact, I generally would recommend maintaining frequency. So if you used to work it out four days a week, keep it four days a week, you can go down a little bit in frequency, but if you go down too much in frequency, you actually tend to feel super lethargic. So I wouldn't do that. If you do those things correctly, you can typically see somewhere between like a three to 8% improvement in performance within a matter of days.

Andy (2h 24m 20s):
So it's important to do that. We actually ran a study on cross-country runners years ago testing on a metabolic heart muscle, biopsies, blood, a whole bunch of things and we did it pre and post three weeks of taper and we actually, this was cool because we did this in competitive season, so these were collegiate cross-country runners and we got them to come to our lab three weeks before their conference championship, ran them all through a bunch of testing, biopsied them, they went through their three week taper and then we biopsied them again and then they went and ran their conference championships and stuff. Well what happened was they end up hitting about a 50% reduction because what they did is they took out what we call the junk volume. So they kept their race tempos, high intensity stuff in there, they kept their recovery stuff and then that medium pace, they just basically reduced.

Andy (2h 25m 4s):
Now they were terrified as any endurance runner or endurance athlete or participant would understand. When you take volume away, they tend to get very nervous and so they didn't like that. But as a result of that, what we saw is their VO two max, despite the fact that they covered half the mileage, their VO two max did not go down in three weeks of reduced taper your fitness is in is extremely stable. And in fact, once we actually looked at their data, the enzymes in their muscle were responsible for oxidated metabolism were maintained and so you don't have to worry about losing again fitness or they're talking about overall performance or even oxygen capacity, mitochondrial function, et cetera.

Andy (2h 25m 45s):
That was all preserved obviously we saw performance go up. What was actually really interesting is we saw, I think it was around a 10% increase in type two, which are fast twitch muscle fiber size. So we saw a 10% increase in fast twitch fiber size at the end of three weeks of tapering. Now what you may think is like, wow, I guess tapering is anabolic, but that's probably not what happened. What realistically probably happened was their volume of training was actually causing their fibers to be reduced in size and then once we removed that fatigue, they just recovered back to normal. So that's a good example of what I'm talking about. Once you remove the fatigue, you can actually see enhancements in performance.

Andy (2h 26m 28s):
Not because you're necessarily getting better, but because you're removing the simuli that's suppressing you. So that being said, the way that you wanna think about recovery like this is, although recovery, especially like injury recovery like seems chaotic, biology is very organized and there's a very specific three step process that you're gonna go through for recovery. And then there are different supplements that can help you in each of those three areas. So area one is basically inflammation. So this is when the cytokine storm comes rolling out, it starts signaling the injuries there in this case, even if it's muscle damage and activates immune system to kick on and that whole repair process happens there.

Andy (2h 27m 9s):
What you're trying to do effectively, in fact this is why you, you probably ever wonder like why is inflammation a thing? What you're trying to do is bring in fluid, enhance the size and increase blood flow in so that you can get nutrients for repair and immune cells and everything like that in the system and get the waste out. So short term inflammation, even in the case of muscle soreness is the example we we talked about in the previous episode. But any inflammation, it is part of the necessary process. That's why you would not want to take an anti-inflammatory in that state. And so why you also would not want to do things like an ice bath. So in that immediate inflammatory response time window, this is you know, seconds to hours after training, you would wanna stay away from things like that.

Andy (2h 27m 52s):
A good option here are things like omega three s, good evidence, sumter, somewhere in the neighborhood of like two to five grams total, typically like a one-to-one EPA to DHA ratio is fine. Similarly, this is another example of when good doesn't mean more is better. Cuz for example, there is EV actually evidence showing up to 15 grams will harm the immune response. And so you don't just wanna be like, man, I'm super sore, I'm training harder, I'm just gonna go to 10 grams a day, day or more and more. You're actually causing yourself more of a problem. So antioxidants, anti-inflammatories are fine. Again, omega-3 S in that dosage are a decent thing. You can also do something like 500 milligrams of curcumin three times a day.

Andy (2h 28m 35s):
That's gonna be enough to keep you in a decent spot. There are some other things that you could look up, maybe some potential benefit for ginger and vasalia and some things like that for inflammation. But under, unless we're in like very specific circumstances where we have like an injury, we're probably not going to those, you know, areas.

Huberman (2h 28m 54s):
I just wanted to highlight one thing that came up in the previous episode. Some, not all people, but some including myself, are very sensitive to curcumin. Yep. It has a very potent effect in reducing dht, dehydro T testosterone, and leads to all sorts of clamping of testosterone associated positive things. So I have experienced that myself. I've had people write to me and say, I don't understand. I start taking a supplement. Curcumin's supposed to be a great anti-inflammatory, it flatlined my libido, it took away my drive and kind wondering what's going on there. Those people are very likely to be very DHT sensitive.

Huberman (2h 29m 35s):
Curcumin, while it's a potent anti-inflammatory, can also potently reduce D H T. But some people tolerate it quite well and are hearing this and probably think that's ridiculous. Well, it's certainly substantiated by the biochemical pathways that curcumin taps into in the known roles of D H T on libido, aggression, power output, et cetera, and mood. So just B wary that A, there's no way to predict this. One simply has to figure it out empirically, meaning you have to try and see if you like it or don't. The good news is, is those negative effects on dht seem to reverse pretty quickly after ceasing to take curcumin. So just a mention of something that came up in a previous episode, but in case people didn't hear that, that segment just wanted to highlight those, those facts.

Huberman (2h 30m 19s):
Further

Andy (2h 30m 20s):
Evidence. Do I, I strongly discouraged, strongly discouraged taking anything in the anti-inflammatory antioxidant realm unless you actually have a reason to do so. If you're waking up and you're like, maybe I'm inflamed, that's probably not a good approach, right? Let's have a reason to do so. Step two is actually what we call proliferation. And that's kind of like the cleanup crew. That's when you're gonna be going in there and cleaning out dead cells and debris and misfolded proteins and things like that. At this stage, a fantastic evidence-based supplement is glutamine. Glutamine, 20 grams a day. We typically honestly split it up into two dosage, 10 grams warning, 10 grams a night. It's a conditional amino acid, which means you can make it, your body can make enough of it at times, and other times you may wanna support it.

Andy (2h 31m 5s):
Generally those conditional times are things like burn victims, high stress situations or injury, things like that. So there isn't also like a ton of downside to glutamine because it can go through transamination, which means your body can take it and say like, we don't need anything here for our muscle recovery. Let's make it into an something else and use it for whatever else is needed. So it's kind of another one of these like low risk products. It's honestly why you see it in a lot of recovery products. If you're ever wondering like, what the heck is that in there? I don't need amino acids. And you're thinking it's like for protein synthesis, it's really not. It's because of this, it is beneficial to this proliferation process.

Huberman (2h 31m 48s):
I've been taking glutamine for years. I tend to take it in higher dosages several times throughout the day if I'm ever feeling particularly run down. Yep. I know there are decent data, not great, but decent data on the role of glutamine for leaky gut. Totally. We're off saying leaky gut that's getting a little bit into the realm of like not super well substantiated but fully agree in the, in the peer reviewed literature. But some, a lot of anti data and, and certainly some peer reviewed work but not a ton. And then there is also growing interest in the idea that glutamine because it can trigger activation of the neurons in the gut that signal to the dopamine pathway in the brain that it can be used to offset sugar cravings.

Huberman (2h 32m 31s):
This is kind of an interesting new, an emerging theme which makes sense given the biology of the neurons in the gut that respond to specific amino acids including glutamine essential fatty acids and sugar. And because they respond to any and all three of those, any one or combination of those, I should say, to trigger this dopamine response. Some people have taken to a teaspoon or so of glu of glutamine in some water or other drink couple times throughout the day as a way to reduce their sugar cravings. Because what's essentially doing is it's tricking the pathway into, into activation of those neurons through an alternate ligand receptor interaction.

Andy (2h 33m 10s):
Right. I also, another interesting point there are very, I'm trying to think right now off the top of my head, I can't think of a time and I've used glutamine a lot. I can't think of a time where I've ever heard anybody come back with any side effect reports.

Huberman (2h 33m 24s):
I think if you take enough of it, you can get some gastric distress, but of course you take enough of any powdered substance mixed in water, you're gonna get a a gastric distress response. And I, what I've noticed about gastric distress with things like creatine, glutamine, and even protein powders for that matter, I use a high quality whey protein powder routinely, is that if you build up to it over the course of a few days, then you can get away with using much higher dosages without any

Andy (2h 33m 52s):
Issue. Yeah. Yeah. Beta alanine is the same thing by the way. We sort of talked about that earlier. If, if you've ever tried that and you're like, oh my gosh, like I feel like I've just rolled around in grass and my skin is itching

Huberman (2h 34m 4s):
Everywhere. Oh it's that ants under the skin sensation. Yeah.

Andy (2h 34m 7s):
All that stuff, yeah, you can just take a little bit of a lower dosage and be fine for the most part. And then you will build up a tolerance to that pretty quickly so you can up that dosage along the way. So what we will oftentimes do there, start at a dosage that's pretty minimal, like two grams and then every week or so you can go up another gram until you get to whatever final point you wanna be, five, six grams a day, you know, whatever. So that's another way you can sort of mitigate that problem. So the third step in this recovery process, after inflammation proliferation, we're now into remodeling and this is when you're actually, you know, growing back bigger and stronger. This is where the majority of the repair is actually taking place. And at this point we're basically playing a micronutrient and macronutrient game.

Andy (2h 34m 48s):
Right. By that I mean we've talked about basic macronutrients. One thing to pay attention to, oftentimes if people are hurt, whether they've had an injury or they've had just, they're super sore and they are concerned about eating excess calories, they tend to want to eat less food during this process cuz they're like, I'm not working out so much so I'm gonna eat less calories. But one of the things that you have to pay attention to is injury can increase basal metabolic rate by up to 10%. Wow. So what you want to do in general is just take your calories up about 10% at least that's what I recommend. If that is an extended period of time, then yes you may put on a slight amount of body fat or something.

Andy (2h 35m 31s):
But if that also means you come back some percentage faster, then it's worth the exchange. So we recommend that. In terms of your carbohydrate or fat split, I'm not super worried about it. My general recommendation is just don't make any major changes relative to what you were doing. Right. Keep yourself pretty much in the same spot in terms of protein, this is the big one. You wanna make sure you were absolutely at one gram per pound of body weight because we need those amino acids to come in and start helping with recovery.

Huberman (2h 36m 1s):
One gram of protein per pound of body weight or more, or one gram

Andy (2h 36m 5s):
Or more. Yeah. And there's gonna be very little downside to, to having more. Remember protein and carbohydrates both stimulate insulin and remember insulin is anabolic and so we're trying to drive this process of recovery. That's why you want both. So you wouldn't want to skimp on carbohydrates in this phase, nor would you wanna skimp on protein because you need the activation, the drive into the tissue as well as the structure. Going back to one of our earlier conversations, and at this point in the week, I honestly can't remember at all what episode we covered this in, but I gave an analogy about use making a campfire and using fat and carbohydrates as the wood and the log and the protein were the, the the metal structure.

Andy (2h 36m 50s):
So you need that supply if you're trying to bank, if you've cleared out in the previous step damage proteins, then you need to make new ones to re recover that process. You have to have the raw supply and material. So you wouldn't wanna avoid either one of those things. There's actually some indirect inflammation management that comes from fatty acids, which you actually sort of alluded to earlier. I don't think you need to necessarily go crazy, you don't need to change your fat intake that much, just don't drop it. You know, depending on where you're at. So if you're a little bit of a higher carb, lower fat person, great. If you're moderate, great. If you're the indirect, if you're higher fat, lower carb person, awesome. Just don't make an extreme change and don't, and try to not be on the extremes of either one of those ratios.

Andy (2h 37m 30s):
But the only specific number to pay attention to again is that protein number. And if you go a little bit high or even a lot high, it's totally fine, just don't go low. So that's the, the macronutrient portion of remodeling. In terms of micronutrients, to be honest, you, you just get your bases covered. This is when a basic multivitamin I is effective. What you're really trying to look at here are vitamin A and zinc. They actually have independent mechanisms that are helpful here, but those are typically covered in most multivitamins. So we generally just give people a multivitamin. Magnesium is actually has some, some benefits here. Something like six milligrams per kilogram of body weight is the dosage you're looking for there.

Andy (2h 38m 11s):
Magnesium citrate is probably has the most evidence in terms of this respect, but it doesn't mean, I actually have no reason to think you couldn't use glycinate or if you're using another form for sleep, that's probably fine. I don't know that for sure, but I, I can't think of a reason why the other forms of magnesium would all of a sudden not work. So you could probably choose whichever form you'd like. Albeit citrate has probably the most research in this aspect. The only other things you would probably consider here, three things calcium might be on your list, particularly if you're trying to, if you're concerned with some sort of bone injury and we've sort of gone past like recovery and we're actually like into injury.

Andy (2h 38m 53s):
So you'll see that in recovery products occasionally and that's why. And then the last two ones of course are vitamin D and that's pretty well researched. And then the last one is actually something that can help you if you're at this stage and you still are dealing with a lot of soreness or not, and that is tart cherry juice and that's actually effective for both doms muscle injury, muscle soreness, and actually has another benefit of potentially aiding with sleep. So I'm not a bad one to turn to as well. And there's a number of companies that make these things. Yeah. And then there's actually more ongoing research that I know of on those areas. But promising literature, we'll

Huberman (2h 39m 27s):
Say not often, but every once in a while on this podcast I will solicit social media for questions from the audience where I should say the audience to be and then ask some of those questions on the fly during the podcast. I did this with Dr. Lex Friedman. I'm going to do it with you. Your goal is to answer each of these questions, certainly not all of them, thousands of them within the last couple of hours to answer each of these questions in three or four sentences. I certainly won't be counting the number of sentences that you speak, so just know that if you want to go over a little bit, that's fine. But feel free to refer to your Instagram site at a future time where you might go more in depth or to refer to to a study or if you like, you can also say pass if you don't think that you can.

Huberman (2h 40m 17s):
Okay. Answer the question succinctly enough for this format. And here the goal is not to put you on the spot, the goal is simply to allow the audience to ask some questions directly. And I, I confess I'm looking at these for the first time, so I'll try and be quick with my, with my reading. Some of these we may have touched on in previous episodes or in this episode even, in which case you can just kind of cue us to the reminder. This is not directly related to supplementation, but it is related to nutrition. And I don't think we touched on this directly. Can we do intermittent fasting, a K time restricted feeding with keto and still gain muscle mass

Andy (2h 40m 57s):
TB d I am am quite clear such study does not exist. So I, I don't know. I think I've alluded to before that we did run an intermittent fasting 16 eight hypertrophy study. There was no keto arm. The result of that study by the time this comes out will probably be ready though I'm not sure so I can't comment on it. I haven't looked at the data. But regarding whether or not if you did that with keto or not, I can't comment scientifically.

Huberman (2h 41m 27s):
Do you ever prescribe the use of GABA supplements?

Andy (2h 41m 31s):
Well, I can't prescribe anything to, to make sure we're

Huberman (2h 41m 35s):
Clear, but you're a professor. You can profess,

Andy (2h 41m 36s):
As I say, I can profess, we generally don't spend too much time on gaba. Rarely

Huberman (2h 41m 42s):
Is it okay to wait train fasted than not break the fast and eat for three or four hours after training. So in other words, yep, train fasted, I do this, but then also not eat immediately following training and wait another three to four hours after training.

Andy (2h 41m 56s):
Once we have our results from my intermittent fasting study back, we will, we will have a better answer here. My general recommendation as it stands now though, is as long as your total protein intake is sufficient, you should be in a decent spot.

Huberman (2h 42m 13s):
Great. A lot of questions about fasting and training. Just to, to note that. Can you train high performance fasted and how long before you need to refuel the body?

Andy (2h 42m 24s):
Yeah, you can certainly do that. I know of actually many athletes, some athletes that will do that though the vast majority will not. As it gets higher and higher in intensity and or duration, it gets more challenging. But it really does come down to what you did the day before as well. So if you ate sufficient calories the day before didn't train and your glycogen stores are topped off, you have a fighting chance. Now the duration part of that equation is really kind of dependent upon you. So are you really talking 30, 45 minutes, 60 minutes? You're probably fine. And whether you're out past that in a several hours, you may not be. And then the only other comment I would make is there is, keep in mind whenever you think about fasting and any other, let's say against the textbook, you know, quote unquote style, you really, really need to be careful in thinking the difference between can I do it and is it optimal?

Andy (2h 43m 15s):
So I have absolutely no reason to think fasting like that would improve performance. I only work for the most part with people who are trying to perform at the highest level possible. So I can't think of a scenario in which I would go too fasting to try to enhance performance. So whether or not you can maintain some level of performance, probably will it provide any benefit? I struggle to find scenarios in which that would actually make you perform better.

Huberman (2h 43m 40s):
How do different forms of carbohydrates impact performance? And then right below it, another question about carbohydrates D which is does carbohydrate cycling work? So these are two questions from people that I think don't know one another, but a lot of carbo questions about carbohydrates and performance, which we've touched on. Anything else that you want to add to that conversation?

Andy (2h 43m 60s):
I don't think I really, maybe you might wanna think about carb loading slash carb cycling. So carbohydrate loading does help. However, a misconception there is, it's just, you know, a big bowl of pasta the night before that can help top off storages. But really optimal carbohydrate loading prior to a long duration endurance performance is probably best over the course of three or four days. So you want to gradually increase carbohydrate intake for multiple days rather than just have one big bowl of pasta,

Huberman (2h 44m 32s):
Branch chain amino acids and essential amino acid supplementation. Yay, nay or as I would say, me

Andy (2h 44m 42s):
Me, usually if your total protein intake is fine, then you don't really have a need for them. If your, for whatever any number of valid reasons total protein is not, then going to an essential amino acid would be my first step rather than A, B, C, A, a. Now admittedly, we actually do use essential amino acids somewhat regularly because it's, it's also sort of like a, there's no real harm other than if you're price conscious and you're sort of like, I'm wasting money, that's fine. The people I work with generally, again that's not a few dollars for the maximize recoveries is not that big. So we will sometimes use that emitter post training in, in some circumstances total protein would be my high quality way, something like that.

Andy (2h 45m 27s):
If you can't use whey for whatever reasons, there are plenty of high quality vegan proteins you could use. If you want to top all that off though and add some essential amino acids, it wouldn't hurt anything and may potentially help slightly. So you choose based on that algorithm.

Huberman (2h 45m 43s):
Ah, I was hoping somebody would ask this. We've touched on it a little bit. It's a little bit of a loaded question the way they phrased it. So at risk of leading the witness, does the mythical anabolic window really exists and I'm just laughing cause the way they posed the question, they're already telling us what their stance is, making it more effective as to create hypertrophy to eat within a certain timeframe after working out. I'm going to assume that this person genuinely wants to know whether or not the anabolic window really exists or not. Because they refer to it as mythical. Yeah, I'm gonna assume that they're suspicious, but what's the deal? Is the anabolic window a real thing?

Andy (2h 46m 24s):
The post-exercise anabolic window is extremely real. So what this is, you can see more detail in a number of videos on my YouTube page. I believe it is the idea that you need to must consume some sort of nutrients specifically usually protein in some time domain 30 or 60 minutes post-exercise in order to maximize growth. So is that window real? Yes. Are you hypersensitized to nutrients in that timeframe? Yes. Is it very important that you rehydrate replenish muscle glycogen and rebuild tissue quickly after you exercise to maximize recovery? Absolutely. It's not real though in the sense that you, that you have to have it within 30 minutes.

Andy (2h 47m 6s):
In the case of protein, as we talked about a second ago, your total protein intake throughout the day is more important. Timing though for things like carbohydrate, especially if you're training multiple times a day, it is very real. So it is a very real thing. It's just you may or may not actually care about it, it may not be important for your context.

Huberman (2h 47m 24s):
Garlic seems like an appropriate question. What if any, functional roles does garlic have in performance?

Andy (2h 47m 32s):
Garlic's actually really cool. There's a number of things you can dive into that are outside of my three to four sentences, considering 'em at like two and a half probably already. You're not gonna find strong human data on garlic extract. However, there is a little bit suggesting it can actually enhance recovery from injury or potentially tissue damage. So you gotta kind of be careful though because in order to understand what's happening you have to differentiate between innate and adaptive recovery processes. And when we say things like immunity realized fence, that's not one thing. That's just like a very colloquial term for a number of things.

Huberman (2h 48m 9s):
Again, it's a verb totally like it's a noun, right? The immune system. But it it immunity is a bunch of processes or processes. If you're about to correct my speech, I'll correct yours right back. Not yours Andy. Yeah, but the listeners processes, but tomato, tomato, it's a verb. Immunity is a verb.

Andy (2h 48m 27s):
This is my problem with immune boosters. Same issue, right? You're like whoa, what are you boosting specifically because in fact if you're boosting the wrong part of unity during the wrong phase of recovery with garlic, you may be actually hurting. Then the process, because you are theoretically could be trying to down-regulate that portion, is that you can up-regulate an next portion. That's the faster way to say it, if you will. So we actually, you may see more data come out that says the garlic extracts now overrated. I don't know, I actually don't even know yet. We just don't have enough human data on it. But yeah, there's some stuff there if you wanna look hard enough.

Huberman (2h 49m 8s):
I'm gonna ask this question for myself cuz I'm curious to know the answer. Selfish, tart, cherry extract,

Andy (2h 49m 14s):
Pr pretty effective actually for two things. Potentially hate aiding in sleep, getting to sleep as well as muscle soreness. That's the bulk of the research is in muscle soreness and seems to be a moderate effect there.

Huberman (2h 49m 29s):
I think for people that might be interested in dosages of things like tart cherry extract, garlic, et cetera. Obviously Dr. Andy Galvin's Instagram and Twitter are great places to ask questions like that and find Quest answers to questions like that. As well as examine.com as a terrific website, they actually recently overhauled their entire website. So they have this human effect matrix that shows the, the effects and the the strength of different effects in human studies of many, many different compounds relating to everything to, you know, hormone health and men and women sports performance, cognitive performance. It doesn't cover everything, but it certainly covers a lot with links to studies.

Huberman (2h 50m 11s):
There's a lot that's available at completely zero cost. By joining examine.com you can access some additional features. And this is, by the way, not a paid endorsement from examine.com. I'm simply a longtime user of examine.com myself. And so I just want a Q people to it. And again, many of the resources there are available completely free of cost. It's a wonderful site. So for dosages of garlic tart cherry extract and things of that sort, whether or not you're getting it from food or you're getting it from extract powders, rather, all of that information is, is pretty nicely laid out there. So unless you have something to add to that, I was just gonna cue people to that

Andy (2h 50m 51s):
Resource. No, I've been using that since the first day that website was launched. I, I was made aware that it was coming. Been fortunate to know those guys for a while. So yeah, I've used it. I've used it in all my classes. I use it, I don't even know, probably weekly at this point. Another ne nice feature that's actually on there is they have a, a series of like, they'll do some topical reviews basically. So they'll write a big paper out on muscle damage or blood

Huberman (2h 51m 18s):
Pressure or testosterone, testosterone enhancement or hormone, you know, menstrual cycle and, and

Andy (2h 51m 24s):
Yeah, P C O S I think they do one on and all kinds of stuff. Yeah, so you can search by topic like, you know, energy or recovery or whatever, or even search by, you know, black human C extractor, like whatever number of things you want to do. And I'll also tell you if there's any interactions to pay attention to. So it's really, really nice. So be carefully if you're taking A and B or whatever. So yeah, it's wonderful, wonderful.

Huberman (2h 51m 45s):
Yeah, they've done a marvelous job, so thank you. examine.com, keep up, keep up the amazing work. Well we've come close to the end of this episode and that means that we are close to the end of this series where you have so graciously joined us for six full episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast to educate us on all things fitness. Episode one you reviewed and educated us on assessing our level of fitness. In fact, I learned so many ways of assessing fitness that I had not thought about and also assessing my recovery capacity. For instance, one thing that I'm definitely going to implement from that episode is a routine broad jump test an an in-home high jump, jump and touch test if people don't know what I'm referring to, that's all contained in that episode.

Huberman (2h 52m 36s):
It's timestamped. These are very straightforward zero cost ways to assess one's level of fitness. There are a few others that require a bare minimum of technology, like taking your pulse rate in very specific ways as specific times. Also some timing of mile runs and some other things related to strength and hypertrophy and on and on really it's a, it's a buffet of options that we can select from. And I already know the four or five that I've started implementing this week, I've recognized how I'm pretty good in a couple of areas. I'm doing maybe, maybe better than pretty well in one area, but that I'm doing ABIs moving poorly in a few areas that I just wasn't aware of.

Huberman (2h 53m 19s):
And so I've already started taking on ways to adjust that over time and I'll, I'll keep people posted. So that first episode was absolutely incredible and just provides so much actionable knowledge and the rationale behind it. The second episode, you educated us about strength, speed, and hypertrophy training. And there too an immense amount of incredible knowledge. We got way down into the details you explained, sets reps the rationale for sets, reps, rest, cadence, number of workouts per week. I'm definitely gonna take away my need to do some speed based training and some power-based training. Normally I think in terms of strength or hypertrophy and I'm relieved to learn that a lot of the speed and power-based training, it is low intensity enough that it can be done fairly often and incorporated into my program, which already touches on strength and hypertrophy and indeed some endurance work as well.

Huberman (2h 54m 13s):
So amazing tips that you provided there. I'm certainly going to implement the three to five program that you described. Three to five exercises done for three to five repetitions, three to five minutes between sets. You're doing this three to five times per week and so on and so forth. All the details, again, timestamped in the strength and hypertrophy episode show note. So just incredible. We

Andy (2h 54m 38s):
Even use that to set up PR with you this

Huberman (2h 54m 40s):
Week. That's right, I did PR this week. Thanks, thanks to your input and following that program and I'm really grateful for that. It, it does feel good to break through a barrier. Yeah, and I intend to break through more barriers but not just with strength and hypertrophy because episode three you taught us all about endurance, the four different forms of endurance, how to train for each of those different forms, the value of doing even very brief 22nd sprints or bouts of jumping jacks throughout the day, which to some people might just sound like a, you know, like a little hack or a gimmick, but no, these are actually tapping into fuel systems and modes of neuromuscular interactions that greatly aid other forms of endurance, like long duration endurance.

Huberman (2h 55m 22s):
I would love to return to my high school mile time, I won't reveal what that is cuz this is not really about me. But I plan to start doing, if not mile repeats, then doing some mile mile runs and testing there once a week. You laid out a beautiful program for how to do that. And then in the next episode you wowed us again with a description of the science and the tools and this right down to the details, but all laid out very cleanly and clearly as to how to design an optimal fitness program. What are the things that really represent an optimal program? What d questions does one have to answer before designing a program? What are some of the barriers in the way this concept of defenders as things that prevent you from reaching your goals.

Huberman (2h 56m 8s):
And one of the key things, I have it right here in front of me that I took away from that episode was this quadrant approach of really thinking about and figuring out how much one intends to devote to work career calling, let's make that one bin, relationships another bin, fitness in the other bin and recovery in the other bin. And here we'll tip our hat to our, our good friend Kenny Kane for mentioning that overall scheme for doing things have been immensely useful. And I've actually charted it out and thought about and drawn out which different things fall into each of these categories. You might think it's obvious, okay, relationships, but that includes a lot of different things and there's crossover between these bins in terms of how you can combine enhancing relationships with fitness, work, recovery and so on.

Huberman (2h 56m 54s):
So that episode is just a, again, a, a treasure trove of knowledge. And then in the next episode, you re you educated us on recovery in all its forms in the very short term, in within the workout immediately after the workout. And from workout to workout ways to really accelerate recovery, assess recovery. And as you pointed out, for people like me who always assume that we don't recover very well and that's some sort of character trait or nervous system thing or genetic, to really think about how my training is impacting my level of recovery and in doing so is revealed to me that I have far more capacity than I thought I had. And already this week I've managed to train more often doing more work and I feel better than ever.

Huberman (2h 57m 38s):
And that's also despite the fact that we've spent a, a fair amount of time in these chairs across from one another. It's a kind way to say it. Well it's, it's been, it's been a pleasure. And then in today's episode you explained nutrition and supplementation as it relates to performance and of course that touches into recovery, but also optimal mental states for training, how to approach one's training and how to extract the most from training through quality nutrition, right? So what to eat and when, which carbohydrates, protein amounts, windows of opportunity, windows you absolutely don't want to miss. And then some that are a bit more flexible. And then we went deep into the weeds of magnesium, garlic, tar extract, alpha gpc, we touched on neurotransmitter related systems, hormone related systems.

Huberman (2h 58m 27s):
We went deep into a discussion about sleep because of course sleep is the foundation for recovery and performance of all kinds, emotional, mental, and physical recovery and performance. And in taking us through this enormous arc of a journey through fitness, I think it's fair to say that you've given us your knowledge contained in your head. I was telling someone just the other day that one of the things that I always lamented in science is that I would encounter these incredible professors and scientists and in other domains of life too. And you just wish there was some way to download their brain because they had so much knowledge inside them. And I'm looking for a u sb or u s BBC port on you and I don't see one yet. But what you've effectively done for us across these six episodes is to download the actionable knowledge.

Huberman (2h 59m 12s):
And you know, it's wonderful. The information you've provided is clear, it's super interesting, it's highly, highly actionable and in many cases it's counterintuitive and surprising. But once one understands the logic behind it as you've provided for us also, then it all makes sense in a way that's extremely satisfying and extremely motivating. So it's certainly motivating me to change the way that I train in a number of ways. And I promise that I'll report back to our audience and to you as to what my results are. But really as we both agree, this is not about me, this is not about you, this is really about the people listening. And so for those of you listening, I hope you can appreciate what an incredible gift it is to have somebody of Dr.

Huberman (2h 59m 56s):
Annie Galvin's experience and drive and scholarly background who also works with athletes and everyday people. Just to splay out all this knowledge for us systematically over six episodes. Dr. Andy Galpin, thank you ever so much.

Andy (3h 0m 16s):
I appreciate that far too kind of words, Jimmy, they're, if you've been following along through this entire journey as you called it, you know, I like first principles thinking and I like lists. So I'm gonna get you with one more list and I got five things on this final list. Get your pen and pat out please. Number one, I want to really emphasize science itself is a verb, which means it's ongoing in changing. I, I did my best over the course of these many, many, many hours to provide my interpretation of the science, to provide my practical knowledge and things that I use. But that's fallible science changes.

Andy (3h 0m 57s):
There are many, many things in my career that I was very sure the of that the evidence was clear on and then it changed. So as you move forward, do not think of any of the recommendations I gave you, whether they were about, you know, supplement dosages and timing rep ranges or breathing tactics, anything in between, just use them as guidelines. So number one, science is a verb. Number two, I really wanna thank the audience. This has been an extremely long haul, as some of you have somehow I'm sure, which I'm not sure how, but some of you have probably made it through this entire journey and listen to all six episodes and you should probably get some sort of free humor, man lab shirt or something, or a plaque or I don't know.

Andy (3h 1m 41s):
How

Huberman (3h 1m 41s):
About a galpin plaque,

Andy (3h 1m 42s):
Ah, galpin plaque. How about a internet high five? And even if you just dropped in for a few of the episodes, you know, I, I appreciate you taking the time. There's a lot of things you could be doing with your time and to make, to spend those resources on my words is touching. Number three, I wanna actually thank you of course Andrew and the whole team and the crew up here for three things. Number one, I think it's incredibly important that you have gone out of your way to give other people credit for their work. You go outta your way on your large platforms of social media to tag people, to give scientists credit for their work. And most people do not do that. And that's something you don't have to do.

Andy (3h 2m 22s):
And I think that is a culture and you know, I know why you do it. You come from science, that's just what you do. You give people credit for their work, but you go out of your way to do that. And so I wanna thank you for that. The next one is, many people who have outlets and platforms will try to fill those with people who are going to grow their platforms. That doesn't mean these people are wrong, are bad, but I think what's extremely special about what you've created here is again, you have gone out of your way to bring on the direct source of information. I can't even imagine how many of your podcasts, guests have never been on a podcast before or have been on a very short number of them and you've made an extremely large platform doing nothing but talking about super deep dork science directly from the sciences themselves.

Andy (3h 3m 9s):
And to create a community like that, it's, I'm so happy that science is, is made it here and you've shown the world. People aren't stupid and people want detail and people want science and you've given us them. And the last one of course, let's see if I can get through this, is thank you for what you've done for me in my career. I, I understand there could have been any number of people in this chair. And to put me on your, your platform once was incredibly gracious. But to do it for 600 hours or whatever we did in the series is I can't thank you enough for that opportunity. So I hope I lived up to it and I had a tremendous time. And, and thank you for being such a gracious host.

Huberman (3h 3m 51s):
Well, you more than exceeded expectations, you are absolutely the person to be be in this chair talking about these topics with me and for the world. And like once again, I just wanna say thank you as a colleague, as a public educator, as an exercise scientist, and as a friend. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for us or comments or suggestions about topics you'd like us to cover or guess you'd like me to include on the huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comments section on YouTube.

Huberman (3h 4m 37s):
We do read all the comments. Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and during today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. I'd also like to inform you about the Huberman Lab podcast free newsletter. It's called the Neural Network Newsletter. And each month the Neural Network Newsletter is sent out and it contains summaries of podcast episodes, specific protocols discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast. All in fairly concise format and all completely zero cost. You can sign up for the Neural Network newsletter by going to huberman lab.com, go to the menu and click on newsletter. You provide us your email. We do not share it with anybody. And as I mentioned before, it's completely zero cost by going to huberman lab.com. You can also go into the menu tab and go to newsletter and see some example newsletters from months past.

Huberman (3h 5m 20s):
Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion about fitness, exercise, and performance with Dr. Andy Galpin. And as always, thank you for your interest in science.