0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab guest series where I and an expert guest discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today marks the second episode in the sixth episode series with Dr. Andy Galpin, a professor of kinesiology at Cal State University Fullerton, and one of the foremost world's experts on the science and applications of methods to increase strength, hypertrophy and endurance. Today's episode is all about how to increase strength, speed, and hypertrophy of muscles. Professor Dr. Andy Galpin, great to be back. Last episode you told us about the nine specific adaptations that exercise can induce everything from strength and hypertrophy to endurance, muscular endurance, so on and so forth.

0 (49s):
And you gave us this incredible toolkit of fit tests for each of those adaptations so that people can assess them for themselves and then of course improve on each and every one of them. If they choose by the way, people can access that information simply like going to the first episode in this series with you and it's all there and timestamped and I highly recommend people do that. Today we're talking about strength and hypertrophy and so right out the gate I just want to ask you why should people think about and train for strength and hypertrophy? And that question is of course directed towards those that are trying to get stronger and grow bigger muscles. But I know that many people out there perhaps have not thought about the benefits of strength and hypertrophy training and how beneficial it can be, not just for people that want to get bigger biceps, et cetera, but that have other goals, longevity goals and health goals unrelated to what most people associate with hypertrophy.

0 (1m 46s):
So what are the benefits of training for strength and hypertrophy for the everyday person, for the athlete, for the recreational exerciser and so on?

1 (1m 55s):
There's a wonderful saying. I think it was Bill Bowerman, the founder, one of the founders of Nike, and he always said, if you have a body, you're an athlete. And, and I think that's very important for people to understand because one of the major disservices we've done in this field is convince people that things like strength training are for athletes, are for growing bigger muscles and cardiovascular training are for things like fat loss and heart health. And that is a tremendous disservice because it puts a lot of unnecessary barriers and leads to a lot of false assumptions and then therefore poor actions. Classic examples of this are people who are resistant to strength training because they don't wanna put on too much muscle.

1 (2m 37s):
People who only perform one type of exercise because they want say fat loss or they're in it for longevity and health and they don't worry, they're not worried about, you know, being an athlete. And so right out the gates, we can actually draw back a little bit to what we were, our previous conversation when I walked you through the history of, of exercise science. And the reason I did that is to help you understand these are the railroads that, that you're running down and you don't even realize it in terms of everyone thinks of strength training and they immediately default to our principles to optimize muscle growth. And that's not the only adaptation one should be after with strength training. When we think of endurance training, we immediately default to things like, again, cardiovascular health or fat loss or things like that.

1 (3m 19s):
What I really want to do across this entire series and conversations is to to just break that immediately talk about all the other things that you can do with your, with your training and so that people can be comfortable and confident in doing an optimal training program for whatever goal they have. Whether that be specific like growing muscle or non-specific, like just feeling better, having more energy, being more prepared for life and and longevity. And so to directly answer your question, I I could really, we could do a hundred episodes on the benefits of exercise and we could run all the way from mood and focus cognitive tasks to better immune function.

1 (3m 60s):
You'll get less colds, you'll be, you'll fight them off more effectively. Two mortality, right? So some of the strongest predictors of how long and how well you'll live are exercise. However, there are independent benefits that come from just endurance training and there are independent benefits that come from strength training. And so to just give you one categorically, the way that you wanna think about this is resistance, exercise and strength training is the number one tool to combat neuromuscular aging. You cannot get that through any other form of exercise besides heavy overload strength training. And we, and we can walk through in detail what that is, but that is reason number one in general human movement is, is a function of number one, some sort of neuromuscular activation.

1 (4m 45s):
So nerves have to turn on. The second part is muscles have to contract and the third part is those muscles have to move a bone. Alright? If you want to be alive and you want to live by yourself, you have to be able to engage in human movement. If you have any dysfunction in the neuromuscular system there, then you're not gonna be able to do that. And again, as I mentioned, the only way to preserve that or fight that loss of aging I is to strength train. So people will tend to hear numbers like you lose about 1% of muscle size per year after age about 40. And that's true. However, what they don't realize is you lose about two to 4% of your strength per year. So the loss of strength is almost double that The loss of muscle mass with aging muscle power is more like eight to 10% per year.

1 (5m 34s):
And so we can very clearly see the problem you're going to have with aging is not going to be preservation of muscle, although that is incredibly important. It's going to be very specifically preservation of muscle power and strength. And why that really matters is your ability to again stand up and move your ability to catch yourself from a fall. Your ability to feel confident doing a movement that is a function of muscle power more than it is muscle size. And so functionality is really what we want to be, right? You want to be able to do whatever you want to be, do physically and feel confident in doing that as you age. That's going to only be obtained through strength training.

0 (6m 11s):
So is it appropriate to say that training for strength and hypertrophy is also a way to keep your nervous system healthy and young?

1 (6m 19s):
Yeah, absolutely. It, it is the only exercise route we have for that. If you look at just basic numbers like motor units, you're gonna see that older individuals have like a 30 to 40% reduction in total motor units.

0 (6m 31s):
So when you say older, approximately what ages are you referring to? Cuz I know many people out there such as myself are 40 and older, but I know many of our listeners are in their twenties, maybe even in their teens. And I can imagine that people that start doing strength and hypertrophy training younger will afford themselves an advantage over time. But that everybody should be doing strength and hypertrophy training for as much of their lifespan as possible. That's really the message that I'm getting. So if somebody is, for instance 45, would that fall into the bin of older?

1 (7m 6s):
You're gonna start seeing decrements past again around that age of 40 or so. Now there's a lot of genetic variation there and a lot of other things go into that equation like your sleep and your nutrition. But that's a fair number to sort of think about. One actually response is, it's actually sort of counterintuitive. The wonderful thing about strength training is you don't actually have to start at a young age. You can actually, in fact, I was reading a paper this morning because of our previous conversation. It was in over age 90, so these are folks 90 plus and they saw improvements like 30 to 170% in things like muscle size and hypertrophy over a very short period of time. I think it was 12 weeks. So you don't actually have to start, there are some adaptations that you're gonna need for health that you, god you really need to start in your twenties.

1 (7m 53s):
The reason I like to mention that is because if you are listening and you are 50 and you're like, oh shit, I I haven't been strength training, you're not toast. Like you should absolutely start now, but you, you're gonna be able to get to a, a fantastic spot very quickly. Similarly though, if you are 20 or 25 and 30 and you aren't lifting, there are still many reasons why you should do that now. And I want, I, I'd like to point that out because a lot of folks would be like, oh my gosh, they said I have to do it when I'm 20 or 25 or, you know, I'll be sort of screwed. And that's not the case at all. There's really no age limit on this. In fact, there's actually interesting data that just came out showing this reduction in muscle strength and hypertrophy that I sort of talked about.

1 (8m 34s):
It's basically ameliorated with a preservation of activity. In other words, you don't lose these functionalities because of aging. You lose these because of a loss of training to state that again, you don't lose these because of some innate physiological thing that happens with genes become less sensitive or you lose functionality. You pretty much can describe the loss of function of strength and muscle in aging as exclusively because of a loss of training in nutrition and, and anabolic resistance and some other things. So you can do a lot more than you think when it comes to maintaining high quality muscle. And that's really important to point out,

0 (9m 11s):
I'm reminded of the words of the great sherington, he won the Nobel Prize, he's a physiologist, I guess the neuroscientist try and claim him as a neuroscientist because he worked on the neuro system, the physiologist claim as a, as a physiologist.

1 (9m 23s):
He is 100% a physiologist.

0 (9m 25s):
I would call him a neuroscientist. Maybe we can argue about this later. We will. But I think one of the key things that Sherton pointed out was that, and I believe the quote was that movement is the final common path. And what he was referring to was the fact that a significant fraction of the brain itself is devoted to our ability to move. Yeah. And our ability to engage in resistance type movements and that resistance type movements and the continuation of movement throughout the lifespan is what keeps the brain young and healthy and vital. Yeah. And there are so much data now to support that, but it, I'm so grateful that you brought up early this fact that there's a neuromuscular link cuz I think a lot of people think about musculoskeletal, they forget that the nervous system is really in charge of the strength of, of the muscle contractions and the types of muscle contractions that occur.

0 (10m 21s):
I'm certain we're gonna get into that in a lot of depth today.

1 (10m 24s):
You're close there, we're not totally right, but we're

0 (10m 26s):
Close. Okay. Well I, I look forward to being corrected. Yeah. And to achieving the precision that you're known for around that discussion. So if we are to step back and say strength training and hypertrophy training is critical for people of all ages. Yeah. For developing and maintaining the neuromuscular system and for our ability to function in the world. Yeah. Not just offset injury, but the ability to pick things up and move, et cetera. What are some of the other things that strength and hypertrophy training can provide? I, I know a lot of people use strength and Hypertro v training for changing their aesthetics. Yeah. What is your sense about its potency for changing aesthetics as compared to say cardiovascular exercise?

1 (11m 10s):
Yeah, the, the mantra I always like is the reason you wanna exercise is threefold, right? You wanna look good, feel good, plug it. That that's really, that comes from sport, comes from football specifically. We always say that. And what that means really is you wanna look good. People want to look the way they want to look, whatever that means to them. And there are any versions of what you feel to be aesthetically pleasing and that's totally irrelevant. But people want to look the way they wanna look. Number two, you wanna be able to feel good. What's that mean? You wanna be injury free, you wanna have energy throughout the day, you wanna be able to execute anything you want to. So whether you want to go surf in the morning, you wanna play racquetball or you wanna hike or you wanna do all three of those in one day, you should have the ability to do that. And then you wanna play good, which means you should be able to execute any, again, activities that you want to execute, whatever that means.

1 (11m 55s):
All right, so backing all up, what's I gotta do with your question? One of the major benefits of strength training is the responses tend to happen extremely fast. So you can see noticeable changes in muscle size, certainly within a month, absolutely within six weeks. And so we have this wonderful feedback loop that sort of tells you, am I doing this incorrectly? Oh my gosh, yes I am. Also, it's very addicting. The feedback, the response, the physical changes, whether this is actually 0.2 or three look good or feel good, play good, or it's even just part one. You're starting to see that when you compare that to things like fat loss, that journey tends to be longer, it's more difficult, it's more reliant upon other factors like nutrition, et cetera.

1 (12m 38s):
Strength training is really about like there's some very minimal nutrition requirements outside of that. It comes outta the training and the feedback is immediate. That's powerful because if you look across the literature on exercise adherence, you'll see that that is in fact the number one predictor of effectiveness of any training program. So what that means is, if you were to put any variable possible and figure out what is going to determine whether or not this program works, this is what we typically call the methods are many and the concepts are few. So the methods of exercise, the methods of strength training, the method methods of hypertrophy training, which we'll talk about are, are infinite. However, there are only a handful of key concepts that you have to achieve in order for that program to work.

1 (13m 22s):
Adherence is one of them, and again, is often the top one. So you need to do something, you need to do something consistently. When you are getting that feedback and you're seeing results in your appearance immediately and you see that every single day, every time you take off your shirt or every time you look in the mirror, you see that result that tends to drive adherence really powerfully. So it's important to give people wins, especially people who are not maybe like you and I, who are like, I'm gonna lift weights and I'm gonna exercise like no matter what the rest of my life cuz I just love it. Not everyone's like that. And so giving them a little bit of carrot of success. And if you can achieve that in, you know, say three to four to five weeks already, it's a very powerful tool.

0 (14m 2s):
Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is also separate from Dr. Galvan's teaching and research roles at Cal State Fullerton. It is however part of our desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, we'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

Momentous (14m 22s):
Our first sponsor is Momentus. Momentus makes supplements of the absolute highest quality. The Huberman Lab podcast is proud to be partnering with Momentus for several important reasons. First of all, as I mentioned, their supplements are of extremely high quality. Second of all, their supplements are generally in single ingredient formulations. If you're going to develop a supplementation protocol, you're going to want to focus mainly on using single ingredient formulations. With single ingredient formulations, you can devise the most logical and effective and cost effective supplementation regimen for your goals. In addition, momenta supplement ship internationally, and this is of course important because we realize that many of the Huberman Lab podcast listeners reside outside the United States. If you'd like to try the various supplements mentioned on the Huberman Lab podcast, in particular, supplements for hormone health, for sleep optimization, for focus, as well as a number of other things including exercise recovery, you can go to live momentus spelled o u s. So that's live momentus.com/huberman.

Eight Sleep (15m 18s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by eight sleep. Eight sleep Makes Smart mattress covers with cooling, heating and sleep tracking capacity. I've been using an eight sleep mattress cover for about the last eight months and it has completely transformed my sleep. I'm sleeping about the same amount, but I'm sleeping far deeper and I'm now getting the proper ratios of so-called rapid eye movement or REM sleep and slow wave sleep and waking up feeling far more recovered mentally and physically. The underlying mechanism for all that is very straightforward. I've talked many times before on this podcast and elsewhere about the critical relationship between sleep and body temperature. That is in order to fall asleep at night, your body needs to drop by about one to three degrees in terms of core body temperature. And waking up involves a one to three degree increase in core body temperature. With eight sleep mattress covers, you can adjust the temperature of your sleeping environment to be one temperature at the start of the night, a different temperature, the middle of the night, and a different temperature as you approach morning, each of which can place you into the optimal stages of sleep and have you waking up feeling more refreshed than ever. If you'd like to try eight sleep, you can go to eight sleep.com/huberman and check out their pod three cover and save $150 at checkout eight. Sleep. Currently ships in the usa, Canada, United Kingdom select countries in the EU and Australia. Again, that's eight sleep.com/huberman to save $150 at checkout.

Levels (16m 37s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by levels. Levels is a program that lets you see how different foods and activities affect your health by giving you real-time feedback on your blood glucose using a continuous glucose monitor. Many people are aware that their blood sugar, that is their blood glucose level is critical for everything from fat loss to muscle gain to healthy cognition and indeed aging of the brain and body. Most people do not know, however, how different foods and different activities including exercise or different temperatured environments impact their blood glucose levels. And yet blood glucose is exquisitely sensitive to all of those things. I first started using levels about a year ago as a way to understand how different foods exercise and timing of food relative to exercise and quality of sleep at night impact my blood glucose levels. And I've learned a tremendous amount from using levels. It's taught me when best to eat, what best to eat, when best to exercise, how best to exercise, and how to modulate my entire schedule from work to exercise and even my sleep. So if you're interested in learning more about levels and trying a continuous glucose monitor yourself, go to levels.link/huberman, that's levels link slash huberman.

0 (17m 48s):
Let's talk about, about strength and hypertrophy. If you would please remind us what strength and hypertrophy are in terms of the specific adaptation they represent. What I mean by that is when somebody is training for strength, what are they really training for? Obviously it means the ability to move more weight, but I know that it includes a number of other things as well. And when one is training for hypertrophy for the growth of muscle fibers, what does that represent? Because I think if people understand that they will far better understand the methods and protocols that are going to be best for strength and hypertrophy.

1 (18m 26s):
At its core, you've, you've basically described it, when we talk about strength, we're talking about an actual function. So can you create more force across a muscle or muscle groups or, or total movement? And when we talk about hypertrophy, now we're specifically referring to just an increase in size. There's no actual mention of function. So a muscle can grow larger without actually technically being stronger for a number of reasons. However, there is a strong relationship between strength and hypertrophy. So a lot of the times in the general public, in the lay conversations, we sort of lump those two things in as the same thing. And so we have to recognize people who are new to training or people even are intermediately trained, there is a huge overlap between strength and hypertrophy.

1 (19m 12s):
Once you get past that though, they become disentangled. And a good example of it is this. If you look at the strongest people in the world, this would be people who compete in the sport of power lifting, right? That's a true test of maximal strength. So it is a deadlift, a bench press, and a back squat. And you're going to do a one repetition max and all three of those. And so whoever wins is the person who lifted the most amount of weight one time. That's it. It's not like world's strongest man where it is. How many reps can you do in a row or your time, right? Is a true maximal strength test. And you compare those to say bodybuilders. Now both of those individuals are strong and both of those individuals have a lot of muscle. However, it is extremely clear the power lifters will be significantly stronger than the bodybuilders on average, right?

1 (19m 59s):
There are individual exceptions, but we're just talking collective averages and the bodybuilders will have more muscle than the other ones. In addition, whether you look at Olympic weightlifting or power lifting or world's strongest man for that matter, there are weight classes. And the reason is, as you go up in weight classes, you will always see the world records go higher and higher and higher, right? So you can clearly get stronger without adding any muscle. However, there's a point, right, where you simply have to add more mass to get a higher number. And that's why we have weight classes in those sports and in combat sports and lots of other things. So we have the, there's a lot of confusion, right?

1 (20m 39s):
Because people think, man, either these are the same thing, or if I wanna get stronger, I have to get bigger, which is not the case at all. Another misnomer here is I can't get stronger unless I add muscle. That's not true either, right? This is a similar idea. So what, what I'm saying is you have the ability to do whatever you'd like. If you'd like to get stronger and add muscle, great. If you add muscle, you're probably going to bring some strength along for the ride. However, if you want to get stronger and you don't wanna add muscle for any reason, personal preference on aesthetics, whether you're in a weight class and you simply can't afford it, it is quite easy to get stronger or not add much muscle math either.

1 (21m 21s):
And so differentiating these two things is one of them is simply a measure of size. And the other one is I measure of force. And when we talk about strength, what we're really talking about are two unique components. Component one is what I call the physiology. So what, what is the ability of the neuromuscular system? What is the ability of the muscle fibers to contract and produce force? The other one is what we call mechanics. And mechanics is simply things like it is minutia down to how long your femurs are relative to your tibia or, or other things, right? This is biomechanics, this is also technique, this is skill, this is how smooth you feel this is. Are you firing the right muscle group in the right sequence and order?

1 (22m 4s):
And all of these things play into strength. So somebody who maybe has more force capability in their muscle fibers, but their technique in the movement is worse, may lose in a competition. Or somebody again who's like, if you go into the world of speed and power, especially, you'll hear a lot of people talk about like the rhythm and there's just a certain rhythm that has to happen if you want to jump as high as possible or run as as fast as possible. But that's all mechanics at this fundamental level. So when we look at hypertrophy, it's just still simply about how big the muscle is. So those are the really the, the, the similarities and distinctions between strength and hypertrophy.

0 (22m 43s):
When strength improves and when hypertrophy increases, is there also involvement in the ligaments and tendons? That is of course the ligaments and tendons are involved in the movements and yeah, but do ligaments and tendons themselves grow and or get stronger?

1 (23m 5s):
This field is really difficult because connective tissue is not vascular. And so their plasticity is significantly lower than skeletal muscle. In fact, if you look across all the organs, skelet muscle is one of, if not the most plastic, meaning it's the most pliable, the most responsive, the one that's going to adjust. It's basically, it's paying attention to everything that's being said in the body. You cannot change blood pressure or pH or macronutrients floating around without muscle knowing about it. It it is, in fact, this is why we call muscle and organ. People don't tend to think about this. If you were ever on like Jeopardy and they ask you that question of like, what's the biggest organ system in the body? People tend to say

0 (23m 46s):
The skin

1 (23m 47s):
Muscle's actually the correct answer.

0 (23m 49s):
All right, well I'm gonna cite you when I get it. You'll probably

1 (23m 51s):
Get it wrong

0 (23m 52s):
In jeopardy. Not Jeopardy. I don't have any immediate plans to go on Jeopardy, but who knows? Oh,

1 (23m 56s):
There you go. Celebrity Jeopardy, hand Huberman.

0 (23m 58s):
Wait, I don't know about the celebrity part, but Jeopardy would be fun. Yeah, but I will say the muscle and I'll, I'll, if you get a phone call in jeopardy, I don't know, I haven't seen that show in a very long time. Yeah. Maybe ever. Then I'll, I'll call you, but that makes sense. Thes would be the largest organ system in

1 (24m 14s):
The body. Yeah, the reason I was saying that is, so muscle is both listening and talking. It is controlling the immune system a lot. It's controlling blood glucose regulation. It is re it is the central depot for amino acids, which are needed to do things like regulate the immune system, build any new red blood cells. A lot of this stuff is coming from skeletal muscle. So it, when we say organ, by the way, that's actually like a physiological definition. So something that's communicating to either another organ itself or throughout the system. So it's listening and it's talking. Connected tissue is not the same way. And so we do see adaptations with strength training in connective tissue.

1 (24m 54s):
It's just much lower. It's difficult to measure effectively. What we know now is you're gonna have a combination of adaptations throughout the connective tissue. It is beneficial. This is probably one of the major reasons that's that strength training reduces injury risk, which is very, very important because people who tend to wanna pick up an exercise routine after say 10 years, the the class cliche is like, I played all these things in high school, then I went to college, got a job, now I'm 25 or 35 or whatever. And you sort of want to jump back into what you did when you were 20. Well, there's no tissue tolerance left. And what we almost always mean by that is connective tissue, the tolerance in there is is not ready for the load you're about to handle.

1 (25m 34s):
And so you go through some movement and then boom, sprains, tears, you know, even the, like the more significant ones are on achilles's tear, which is gonna really sideline you. So those are some of the problems. And we know strength training has a, a large role in injury reduction for stress and strain and overuse injuries. And that's specifically coming for the connective tissue adaptations. Again, the difficult part here is it's very hard to assess. We actually, when I was a doctoral student, we played around with patella tendon biopsies. So I actually had one, this is like a, there's

0 (26m 6s):
A little piece of your Patel attendant missing. Yeah. Because your own yeah.

1 (26m 9s):
Own lab. So now I've probably had, I don't know how many hundreds of biopsies I've performed on people. Probably well over a thousand, certainly well over a thousand. I've probably had 35 or 40 done on myself. There's no problem here. I have no scar tissue, I have no loss of function and I've stuck needles in every leg, like all over myself, right? Quads, my soleus gas rock, like

0 (26m 31s):
All up, down, ticking tissue out.

1 (26m 33s):
Yeah, you go with the needle, looks like a pen basically. And you, you know, you're lab and you go in and grab a chunk and you pull it out and

0 (26m 39s):
Can I come to your lab and get biopsy? Absolutely. Yeah. You're probably, if it looking under the microscope, it'll just looked like the molecule. Caffeine. There's

1 (26m 45s):
A, there's a, a mutual friend of ours who, who came down and did that, he's a big, big, big gentleman, big into lifting, very into strength training. And he, he went through that experience and he was like, oh my gosh. It was not what he was hoping to get. He actually had unbelievable muscle morphology. His fibers were, the diameter of muscle fibers is extremely large. It's one of the biggest cells by volume in all of biology, skeletal muscle and human,

0 (27m 12s):
How large can't help myself millimeters.

1 (27m 16s):
Well you, so you have length, right? And then you have width, right? So lengthwise, it can be extraordinarily long. You can be, the classic example is like your sartorius, which is like the front of your hip to the inside of your kneecap. Theoretically those cells can run the entire length, which would be one muscle fiber running that thing. If, if I were to do a biopsy on you and I, and I pulled that tissue out, I could actually pull an individual fiber out with tweezers and hold it up and you could see that whole muscle cell. Yeah,

0 (27m 40s):
I'm definitely not allowed to get biopsied.

1 (27m 43s):
You'd be stunned how big they are. Anyways, his was the size of a rhino, so the diameter of his, now he has a well-documented assistance in the area of muscle growth, we'll say. But yeah, those can be large. So what were we even talking about there?

0 (27m 57s):
Well, I was asking about tendons and ligaments. Yeah. Because I'd like to understand the various tissues and organ systems that adapt when one gets stronger Yeah. When muscle tissue grows. And I, I I do want to ask about bone. Yeah. And here I'm not referring to oh, bone mineral density. What I was going to ask is whether or not bone itself can grow and get stronger. And the reason I'm asking is there's a favorite result of mine. I have about 3,800 favorite results, 3000 pet peeves and 3,800 plus favorite results. But one of my favorite results is from Eric Conde's lab at Columbia. Eric won the Nobel Prize for Learning and Memory and his laboratory got really into the effects of exercise on learning and memory. Yeah. And they had this incredible result, which is that load-bearing exercise Yeah.

0 (28m 44s):
Stimulates the bones to release something called osteocalcin, excuse me. And then osteocalcin acts as a more or less a hormone travels to the brain and enhances the memory systems in the brain by enhancing neuron health. That's the basic crux of, of the studies. There were several of these, and the moment I saw the first of those studies, I thought, well, here's another reason to do resistance type exercise and not just aerobic exercise. Yeah. And then it brings to mind whether or not bones themselves get stronger when we do resistance training. I don't know the answer to

1 (29m 15s):
That. Yeah. That's very clearly demonstrated. And we've known that for, for many decades. You have a, a diminishing ability to do so with age, particularly, you need to do this in your teens and twenties. This is where you're gonna have the largest ability to enhance bone mineral density. And it's particularly responsive to axial loading. Now, I'm a muscle guy. I'm, I'm not a bone specialist, so we would have to consult somebody who can give you more precision here. But that's, can you

0 (29m 41s):
Explain axial loading?

1 (29m 42s):
It's, it's up and down, it's vertical.

0 (29m 44s):
Okay. So it's almost like a, like a cylinder putting, putting a weight on the, on the small end of the cylinder. Yep. On both small end of the cylinders. Yeah. If someone doesn't do this in their twenties or teens, however, can we assume that some degree of positive change will occur if they do resistance training, even if it's a small fraction?

1 (30m 2s):
The answer is yes. It, it is small. We have worked with a number of women in our, our rapid health program that come in and they are in their twenties and they're in their thirties and they have significant bone marrow density problems. And eight months later we can see noticeable changes that are outside of the measurement error of, of XA

0 (30m 22s):
Positive changes.

1 (30m 23s):
Positive changes. Correct. And, and if you worked with the, there are many physicians that specialize in this area, you, you're going to need a nu Nutri Nutrition here. Strength training alone is probably not going to get you there, particularly with women because you have to figure out why. And, and there's a lot going on with the physiology and biochemistry. So you probably like almost surely needed to have some blood chemistry done with that. You have to figure out what's going on menstrual cycle wise. In fact, like oftentimes what we'll do for our women very specifically is we use a, a thing called a rhythm plus a 30 day test. So you can actually do a salivary test across the entire menstrual cycle and you can take a samples, it's about every other day. So you'll get 15 or 16 samples and you get a really beautiful picture of what's happening hormonally across the entire menstrual cycle.

1 (31m 9s):
And that's really, really important because typically for women, if you get a single sample or simple time point, whether it's salivary, urine or blood, you can have well like a, a order of magnitude difference in, in any number of metrics because of what phase they're in. This is one of the many reasons why it's been such a challenge to do a lot of physiology research with females. Some metrics change throughout the menstrual cycle. Others don't like strength is a very good example. I can stang and I can do a one wrap access on a woman at any point. I don't have to do that at a certain phase of their menstrual cycle because it's, it's, the evidence I think is pretty clear at this point that number won't change. So I have no qualms, including females in any of my studies where strength is an absolute, is an important dependent variable because I don't have to adjust around menstrual cycle.

1 (31m 57s):
Other factors, like anything in, in blood, anything hormone related, you're gonna have to automatically account for it. So what I would say is those folks should absolutely work with a qualified physician and, and you, you're gonna have to get some nutrition supplementation potentially and then maybe even some other stuff going on to make that even more complicated. If you're on any form of birth control or not, that's going to change the entire equation, especially if it's a hormone based birth control. So it just gets really, really complicated to answer it though. You can see adaptations, they are significantly diminished relative to if you would've started in your teens and twenties. But there is hope. You just need to work with somebody who specializes in that area.

0 (32m 39s):
So for both men and women, boys and girls, what are the major adaptations that occur to underlie improvements in strength? And if you would, if you could just provide a bullet point list of that and then we can dive into each of those in detail. For instance, our nerves getting more Yeah. Efficient at firing our bones, enjoying adaptations in different Yeah. Bone connective tissue relationships that, that underlie strength. I have to imagine all of these things are happening, but what are the, the major changes that are occurring in those organs and organ systems that reflect someone's ability to, on one day lift, you know, a hundred pounds and then a week later to lift 105 pounds.

1 (33m 24s):
Now I'll, I'll try to keep this condensed again. This could be an entire university course. I will also try to give you a little bit of bones here. So normally as a muscle guy, I only, I take all the credit and muscle. Turns out the nervous system gets a little bit of credit too here. Thank you. So as we walk through it just in as, as a big picture, if we think about again, what causes human movement, basically everything along that chain will improve the strength training. And I'm not really being using too much hyperbole there. It's quite impressive. So it's going from the nervous system side of the equation. What has to happen for human movement is a nerve has to send a signal through a motor unit. Now motor unit is, comes down and interfaces multiple muscle fibers.

1 (34m 7s):
So if you think about your actual muscle, it's not a thing, it is a component of many individual muscle fibers. So you've got millions if not more, think of it like a ponytail. So we collectively say ponytail and you think of it as like one thing, but really a ponytail is a combination of tons of individual hairs. Okay? Muscle is the same way. So this motor unit comes in and IVs a lot of different mu different muscle fibers. Now every one of the fibers in a motor unit is generally of the same fiber type. So fast twi or slow twitch. And they are not laid out next to each other in the muscle. They're spread out across horizontally, vertically as well as closer to the bone and further to the surface. So they're, they're moved throughout the entire way and this is what allows you to have smoother contractions and you don't have specificity and things like that.

1 (34m 50s):
So we see improvements from the neuromuscular side, like firing rate. We see synchronization improvements that are, that are coming in. You also see improvements in things like acetylcholine release from the presynaptic neuron. So you're getting it faster. We see calcium recycling is improved back to there. So in, in order for, without walking into too much of the biochemistry, in order for a signal to go from nerve to muscle, there's a little bit of a gap. There's a physical space that happens and, and what happens is you release this molecule called acetylcholine. This goes into the post-synaptic left and then that actually binds to a receptor. That receptor actually opens up a door that lets sodium in. That's really what's happening. So it's not acetylcholine without acetylcholine then sits on that receptor site, it's broken down, put back in and recycled back up into the presynaptic nerve site.

1 (35m 38s):
The faster you can do that, the faster you can recycle that signal. And so almost everything that I described in that entire system improves and has been shown to, to, to increase with training. So that alone is given to give you benefits we haven't even walked into to getting from an electrical signal now into an action potential which is gonna cause a muscle contraction. So getting from nerve into the muscle we see thing, everything from improvements that we call contractility, which means the muscle fiber themselves can produce more force or more velocity independent of muscle size changes. This is another component when we ask like, well how is it I got stronger without getting bigger?

1 (36m 20s):
Well, in the muscle fiber itself, its ability to contract force increases and this because we have everything like the sarco plasm reticulum, which is the place the stores and releases the calcium, which is what's needed for this entire crossbridge interaction from the myas actin to happen. I know a lot of lost a lot of people, but you can go look at some of these images. The sarcos trium gets, gets activated more, it gets more sensitive, it is better at releasing calcium, bringing it back in and doing it again. The bond between the crossbridge, the myosin actin gets stronger. The calcium affinity is the phrase that we use there increases. So we we're literally walking through almost the entire process of skeletal muscle contraction here.

1 (37m 2s):
And every step along the way we, we see improvements. So that re net result is we see again, more force production independent of any change in size, independent of any increase in contractile units. We didn't add anything to the equation. We didn't change size, we did nothing but improve efficiency effectively. Independent of that, now we can actually start talking about changing muscle fiber type. So we can change our fibers from a slow twitch fiber to a fast twitch fiber. That alone is gonna give you more force production. Again, independent of size, fast twitch fibers tend to be larger than slow twitch fibers, but not always, especially in the presence of endurance training. So if you do a lot of consistent endurance training, it's very common for us to find soul touch fibers that are as similar size, if not larger, often, very often larger than the fast touch fibers.

1 (37m 50s):
If you do a's a big slow fibers, big slow, very metabolically effective fibers. So extremely fatigue resistant. So it's not a bad thing to call them slow. It's like we tend to say fast, slow, and slow has this negative connotation, but it's like quite healthy like fiber type to have outside of that. Now we haven't even gotten into things like penetration angle. So this is an angle at which your muscle fibers interact with your bone. So we tend to think about this as like a muscle fiber is pulling on a muscle. Well some of these are oriented or almost a 90 degree. So if fiber runs perpendicular into the bone and some of 'em are closer to like a 45 degree and some of 'em are closer to almost parallel and that confers a lot of unique mechanical benefits.

1 (38m 31s):
So in one area it's actually gonna increase force production. You go the, the other direction increases velocity. And so we have all kinds of changes in the angle at which the muscle inserts into the bone. Now we're already on the mechanic side of it, right? So we've, we've influenced how effectively it pulls. And with any of these things, it's always a give and take. So you're gonna give up in the case of donation angle, you're gonna give up strength, but you're gonna increase a lot shortening velocity. Or if you wanna increase the velocity, you're gonna give up sort of the strength, right? We haven't gotten to any of the energetics at all. So we haven't talked about increasing storage of phosphor creatine, which is the energy system needed to power that muscle contraction at the fastest possible, right? So we could continue to go as, as long as you want here, but hopefully you're getting the point of a little bit of the, of the adaptations that occur.

1 (39m 17s):
The reason I wanna actually, why I think that stuff is important to bring it back maybe for some listeners, I know I took you on a journey there and you're just like, what the hell just happened? That matters. Because again, this is the specific explanation for how is it possible that I got stronger but I didn't get bigger. And this is also why strength and I trophy are intertwined and are heavily overlapped, but are not necessarily the same thing. So for example, we can increase muscle size and actually reduce strength because of what's called lattice spacing. So what happens is you have to kind of remember your muscle fibers are these long cylinders and the way that they contract requires an optimal space. And so what happens is you have this molecule called actin and you have this molecule called myosin myosin sits in the middle and there are six actin that surround each individual myosin in a three-dimensional circle here.

1 (40m 9s):
So you got a mi a myosin in the middle that has all these globular heads and they can reach up and grab an actin. And again, there's six sort of around them, right? Well one of the things that can occur is if those, those actin are too close together. So I imagine my hands, I'm, I'm reaching out and doing a giant T right? So I'm horizontal out there. Well if my fingertips are the tips of the myosin and I'm trying to reach up and grab an acton and I wanna pull those actins closer to my face, well those stack on top of each other and that's what actually makes your muscles grow up. Like if I flex my bicep, it actually, you know, grows up three or four inches cuz you're stacking these, these sarco mirrors or what they're called on top of each other.

1 (40m 49s):
Alright, great. Well if I'm reaching out to grab them and the muscle is stretched too far, I can't actually make that strong of a connection. It would be like if I reached out and grabbed something. But I can only reach my longest fingertip on it when I go to contract. I can't make that strong of a contraction cause my grip is weak. My grip's gonna break before I reach my strength limit. If I'm too close, there's nowhere to go. I'm already as close. So if you actually disrupt that lattice spacing too much, you can actually lose a little bit of strength. So it's not that getting bigger will ever make you weaker, it's simply that you're not optimizing for strength, you're simply optimizing for size. And so that can, that can explain a little bit of the, of the disco garrity between growing and performance

AG1 (41m 33s):
. I'd like to take a brief break and acknowledge our sponsor Athletic Greens. Athletic Greens is a vitamin mineral probiotic and adaptogen drink designed to help you meet all of your foundational nutritional needs. I've been taking Athletic Greens daily since 2012, so I'm delighted that they're a sponsor of this podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens, and the reason I still take Athletic Greens once or twice a day, is that it helps me meet all of my foundational nutritional needs. That is, it covers my vitamins, my minerals, and the probiotics are especially important to me. Athletic Greens also contains adaptogens, which are critical for recovering from stress, from exercise, from work or just general life. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs and they'll give you year supply of vitamin D three K two. Again, if you'd like to try Athletic Greens, go to athletic greens.com/huberman to claim the special offer.

1 (42m 26s):
What are a few of the major changes that occur in muscle nerve, et cetera. When we experience hypertrophy, I've heard of protein synthesis changes. I'm assuming that's true. Maybe you can tell us a bit more about that. Changes in blood flow Yep. Perhaps changes in neural innervation, who knows, maybe even changes in fascia. I, I'm not aware of any specifically, but I have to imagine that they're somehow involved. Sure. So the, when we talk about hypertrophy, a lot of the adaptations are going to be similar because the, the mode of training is close enough.

1 (43m 6s):
So your nerve probably aren't smart enough to differentiate between a set of five reps or a set of eight repetitions. They, they're smart enough to differentiate anything like they know everything that's going on, but it's going to be a huge overlap. The primary difference with hypertrophy is a couple of things. So if you think about the muscle micro structure, I, I have a whole series of videos on YouTube if you wanna see the visuals behind this. In fact, in there I include the specific diameter size, the muscle fibers that I was failed to give you a, a few minutes ago. Okay? We,

0 (43m 34s):
We will provide an, an active link to this. Great.

1 (43m 37s):
So what happens is this, when we talk about, and you hear th this classic buzz phrase of muscle protein synthesis. Generally what we're talking about there is, is contractile units. And so when we say contractile units, we're talking about the myosin actin. And so what we're really trying to do is say, okay, there's some amount of protein turnover where we're coming in and we're trying to add more proteins to the equation. And so what has to happen there is a series of steps. So step number one is there has to be some sort of signal from the external world. This could actually, oftentimes it's things like stretching of the cell wall, which is what happens with exercise, right? So you're contracting a shortening, get this big stretch of the cell wall. It can come from as simple things like an amino acid infusion.

1 (44m 18s):
This is just eating protein. This is why protein ingestion alone is anabolic, right? It'll help you grow muscle independent of even moving.

0 (44m 25s):
So just eating protein will grow your muscles.

1 (44m 29s):
Yeah, certainly. And those that those data are, are very clear. Of course like anything, there's a saturation point in terms of total amount you need to get to and and things like that. But yeah, if you were to walk into a laboratory fasted overnight and I gave you 30 grams of protein, we would see a very measurable increase in protein synthesis quite clearly for several hours, probably four to five plus hours. We could maybe bring in some people that would know those data better, but many hours

0 (44m 54s):
Later with no weight training. Correct. I am embedding that. Most people are not aware of that fact.

1 (45m 0s):
You know what's actually interesting about it is if you do the exact same study again and you just did strength training, you would also see an improvement in protein synthesis, right? But those factors are independent and the mechanisms are independent such that if you do them both together, they stack on top of each other, which is really wonderful. And if you were to add carbohydrate into that mix, now you're actually adding fuel for the, the entire mu muscle protein synthesis process. And now you're gonna see even added benefits. And this is why for so many years, this is bore the whole like post-exercise anabolic window thing, which is like you gotta get carbs and protein and post-exercise to maximize muscle like perine. Now that turned out to be like not totally true in terms of

0 (45m 39s):
The window turned out to not be as strict as people initially asserted, as I recall. Correct. But that, but still I think that's super interesting. These are parallel pathways for, for protein synthesis, simply eating protein or training each independently increases protein synthesis. I can't help but ask, is the same true if one does endur endurance type exercise? If I go out for a a 45 minute jog where I can nasal breathe the whole time. But if I were to go any faster, I would have to kick over into mouth breathing as well. So-called zone two-ish cardio. Yeah. Will I see an increase in protein synthesis as simply as a consequence of that jog?

1 (46m 18s):
No. This is one of the unique factors of strength training. You're, you're not going to see that, in fact you had, it's difficult to measure protein breakdown that's been as extraordinarily challenging to do in the laboratory, but you're not gonna see those benefits. In fact, you're gonna see quite the opposite. It's an, it is an entire molecular cascade. So this is kind of how it works. So you have to have some sort signal on the outside and this can be en energetic signal. So this could be glucose uptake, it could be protein intake, it could be a physical stretch. What happens is on the cell wall there is some sort of, it could be testosterone, right? Testosterone could bind to beta adrenergic receptors. And this activates a whole series of cascades of signaling proteins. And these proteins basically play a game of telephone.

1 (46m 59s):
So one tells the next one, this tells the next one, and they sort of walk this entire way. Well that molecular cascade is fundamentally the same thing, whether regardless of the insult, but they're different pathways. And so the pathway from strength training or protein ingestion is going to go to the same nucleus. It's gonna activate a whole set of gene cascades that are gonna tell you to, to go through this entire process of protein synthesis, which I'll walk through what that is in a second. If you do endurance training, it's a different pathway. And so instead of activating this entire thing of like mTOR and A K T and this, this anabolic signaling cascade, it's gonna do a different one, which you can think of more of like as AMPK and energy signaling thing. So there's a crossover point here. In fact, one of the things you'll notice is mTOR and A K T don't really influence AMM pk, but there is some literature that years ago showed amm mpk will activate another protein called TSC two and that will actually inhibit mTOR.

1 (47m 53s):
And that was the first molecular explanation for the quote interference effect of endurance training on hypertrophy.

0 (47m 59s):
Could you just say highlight for people what this is because as you described these signaling pathways, I just want to maybe just put a top contour explanation. The mTOR pathway is synonymous with cell growth. Yep. Both during development as organisms, humans included, mature and cells get larger. mTOR is abundant in the system. Totally. It's just to put it quite simply. And then the AM PK pathway and some of the metabolic signaling that you're referring to more is more synonymous with cardiovascular exercise in this, at least in the context of this discussion and fuel utilization. Yep. And what you described as a crossover point where certain forms of exercise can tap into both of these.

0 (48m 41s):
Yep. But at least for sake of this conversation, we're we're largely separating them. Yeah.

1 (48m 46s):
Because the, the, the byproduct is the thing that, that matters here. So the result of mTOR and a K t getting into the nucleus is going to be increased in protein synthesis. The result of AMPK running down to the MI is gonna be result in increasing mitochondrial biogenesis. So the net outcome is different. Now I, I do wanna flag it very quickly. This is an extraordinarily complicated thing and in fact in our laboratory we were able to, to be one of the first that figured out how to measure all the different subunits of a m PK and individual muscles by fiber type. So

0 (49m 23s):
We that's cuz you're ripping people's muscles out of their knees and they're patellar tendons. So just teasing, they're, they're gently removing with under IRB protocol.

1 (49m 32s):
Of course. Of course. So even when we say something like, am pk, it's not one thing am, when we say things like mTOR, it's not one thing either. It is, you have the total amount that matters. You have the activation, the activation sites are many of them. So it's not as simple as what I'm laying it out. I just want to, a big concept of kind of what's happening here to, to actually kind of answer your question, which is, okay, so how is the muscle actually growing? What you have to understand is, is a little bit of how protein synthesis occurs. So what I'm generally meaning is you have a whole bunch of amino acids, and this actually goes back to maybe like middle school biology class, right? So if you take a bunch of amino acids and you combine them together, we get these things called a peptide, right?

1 (50m 14s):
And if anyone who's ever heard of like peptides, that's all it really means. You put a bunch of those together, you have a poly peptide, you put a bunch of those together and we now have a protein. So any protein I wanna make is gonna go through the exact same system, the exact same steps. It doesn't matter if that protein is going to be a red blood cell, it doesn't matter if that's going to be a hair follicle, it doesn't matter if it's gonna be skeletal muscle. That's basically protein synthesis. So when we tend to think of protein synthesis, we, we just paint this picture of growing more muscle. And that's not the only thing. And so when we talk about the benefits of having high quality muscle as being this place that's gonna regulate most of your protein synthesis. We tend to lose some people cuz they're thinking, oh, I don't need to gain muscle.

1 (50m 56s):
And that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about regulating the immune system or regulat, we're talking about regulating any protein turnover. So any protein that's degradated or needs to be broken down in your, in your system at all, autophagy, this is the, in like this is such an important buzzword that's just protein breakdown of, of an unneeded or, or damaged protein, right? That whole thing is going to go through protein synthesis to be able to come back and replace the things. The only reason you go through autophagy so you can clean that garbage out and then come back and build in a more properly functioning protein. So it's not just about growing more muscle mass, it's why you want these systems to be operating well. So the protein ingestion is going to just activate that cascade cuz it's basically saying, oh hey look, we have an abundance of supply here.

1 (51m 42s):
Why don't we make something out of it? Because we don't know the next time this thing's going to be around. Carbohydrates and fat are very easy to store. Protein is very challenging. It's more transient. And, and so you can store some of it and keep it around, but most of it you're going to lose. And so when it's available, your, your body wants to act very quickly. It doesn't necessarily care if you have extra fat floating around in your system. It's all right, let's just package it up in store it, we can easily bring this back out. But if you got protein around, you're going to want to use it. And so that's why it alone will activate and increase protein synthesis independent of exercise. So those effects are additive, like I said, because that signaling process is independent and, and once you hit a rate limiting phase, then it you are, you are there, but at its onset those things will work independently.

1 (52m 26s):
Okay, so that being said, what is skeletal muscle hypertrophy in general? We think about it as this increase in contractile protein. So those myosin actin effect effectively get thicker. Okay. Now what happens is since they are thicker, and as I talked about a second ago, that influences and actually hurts the lattice spacing. And so what your body does as a result is say, Hey, let's increase the diameter of the entire cell so that we can maintain our spacing between these things. Right? It's effectively like if, if you know, the two of us were sitting in this room and you doubled in the size and I was like, whoa, whoa, you're in my personal space like and I doubled in size. Now we're in each other's space at some point we just have to make the room larger and that's exactly what's happening in the cell.

1 (53m 7s):
And so as you can continue to increase muscle size, you're gonna con or muscle myro accretion, you're gonna continue to increase muscle fiber size for years. There was this other comment about non-functional hypertrophy and this was often called sarcoplasmic hypertrophy. Now this is not sarcoplasmic reticulum, this is a fancy way of saying my muscle is larger but it has no function. And the question would be, how the hell is that possible if I have more contractile units and I can make more of these cross bridges perform more of these power strokes, this is what these contractions are called. How could I possibly be losing function? Well that was challenged for, that was bro science for a very, very long time.

1 (53m 49s):
And in fact what it really came down to was are there different types of hypertrophy training, some that induce contractile protein hypertrophy and some that induce the sarco possum hypertrophy. And that was the significantly challenged until recently Mike Roberts did a, at Auburn, did a, a series of wonderful studies that showed quite clearly that sarcoplasmic hypertrophy is probably happening. And in fact there's probably a pretty easy explanation in general what happens is it is, it is a increase in fluid in the muscle fiber. And so this would allow for the diameter to be larger, but since there's no addition of contractile units, no more force production happens. And so he actually has a wonderful review paper, I believe it's open access where you can go look and he created a, a wonderful graph, I think that's in my, in my hypertrophy videos on YouTube as well.

1 (54m 37s):
And you can actually see that it's likely happening in phasic changes throughout your training experience. So at the beginning of your training, but as, as the years and year or weeks rather than months and then eventually years go by in your training, we have a change in the hypertrophy that's coming from contractile units versus sarco plastic. So I think that is, it's an important note because again people are wondering like, well how the hell is it even possible for me to get larger muscle and somehow I'm not stronger? Well if it came from simply fluid retention and, and this is not bloating, this is not, there's no negative really to this. It is simply holding a, a more hydration in the cell than amor gets larger. And then everything works that way.

0 (55m 17s):
What you just described calls to mind something similar in the nervous system, which is neuroplasticity, which of course is the nervous system's ability to change in response to learning and experience and damage for that matter. Yep. And we think about it as one term, but there are many different forms of neuroplasticity. Yeah. A discussion that we don't need to get into now, but there's spike timing, dependent plasticity and LTP and long-term depression, which has nothing to do with psychological depression. Yep. And on and impaired pulse facilitation and on and on and on in short-term plasticity. And so what I'm starting to understand is that there are many paths to what we call strength increase. And there are many paths to what we think of as hypertrophy. Many of these are going to operate in parallel.

0 (55m 58s):
It's going to be rare that any one of them is going to be active alone. Yep. In order to create hypertrophy or strength changes. And that certain forms of exercise and certain ways of doing exercises in terms of sets and repetition schemes and rest intervals between sets and between training sessions are going to tap into different mechanisms but also overlapping sets of mechanisms. Which is why, if I understand correctly, you mentioned at the beginning that often not always, but often strength increases are associated with some hypertrophy changes and hypertrophy increases are often not always associated with strength increases. Do I have that right?

1 (56m 38s):
Correct. And the beauty of this whole thing is while we don't yet know the mechanisms specifically and there's a lot of confusion and there's a lot of changes that happen. There's, we actually just submitted a paper a few days ago, myself, Jimmy Bagley at San Francisco, and Kevin Murrick at one has a wonderful muscle physiology lab at Arkansas. And we, we, we actually, this is a very lay article actually, it's incredibly easy to read. We describe the, the role of my nucleation in muscle hypertrophy. And this is actually a lot of interesting stuff we get into there, but we're, we're learning more and more about it as a quick example. So ske muscle is unique in the fact that it is so large and diameter, it's also unique in the fact that's multinucleated.

1 (57m 23s):
What that means is typically in biology you see like ace cell has one nucleus, that's the place that houses and holds the DNA and it's a control center. Does it Toro ri dye repair, that whole thing? Well, skeletal muscle in human is awesome because it has thousands if not more, those nuclei which gives it that plasticity. And so a normal cell has one place it has to go to for any time it wants to up-regulate, down-regulate, do whatever the thing is, your muscle fibers have these little control centers all throughout them. And for years we were like, okay, great. The amount of hypertrophy that you can experience is probably limited by the amount of nuclei you have because you're not going to exceed a certain size of muscle fiber if that's going to mean you lose control.

1 (58m 9s):
And so we're like, okay, great. We found and identified a limiting factor to what will determine how much a muscle can actually grow. And then the next question was, and then where are these things coming from? And, and this is where satellite cells come in. And so it was very clear a satellite cell that's lying dormant sort of on the, the outside, the periphery of the fiber will then go in, into the, into the fiber, it will turn into my nuclei and then it can actually, you know, increase your diameter like that. And so then actually it was like, hey, you're actually limited by the amount of these satellite cells you can get in and turn into nuclei. And then the evidence came out that showed, hey, what if you detrained? So what if I used to lift weights like a long time ago and I got big, but now I've lost a lot of my muscle. If I train again, you actually get that muscle back faster than it took you the very first time to build it.

1 (58m 55s):
Like that's what we call muscle memory like in arfield. Now on your side of the equation, muscle memory is something different, right? It's a neuro, well,

0 (59m 1s):
When people talk about muscle memory, like the ability to ride a bicycle after so many years of not having tried to ride one that's actually largely independent of the muscle has something to do with the muscle. It's exclusively independent of muscle. It's, it's, it's basically a nervous system phenomenon. A hundred percent. So muscle memory has been co-opted by different communities to mean different things. Yeah.

1 (59m 20s):
So on our side, muscle memory is going to mean that ability to remember that muscle size, right, that hypertrophy because as you explained the the motor control thing is that it's a totally a nerve thing. This is the one, I'll give you this one you guys, the nerve people can have this one.

0 (59m 35s):
Well it seems to me that there are a tremendous number of parallels between strength and hypertrophy changes and neuroplasticity, this is coming up again and again in this conversation because we know for instance, that if you are exposed to a couple of different languages early on in life, you'll learn any number of different languages far more easily later in life. Of course. And that's because there's some crossover between different languages. Yeah. Especially Latin-based languages that allows for that. There's a substrate for it. It's similar to the, the ability to help on a bicycle again phenomenon or play an instrument phenomenon. But it's broader than that. Yeah. And again, I think this speaks to the huge number of different adaptive changes that are occurring in the cells and in the nerves that innovate these cells when one experiences increases in strength and hypertrophy.

1 (1h 0m 21s):
Yeah. So to, to round that out and to go back to what I was saying there, what we're actually learning now is that nucleation thing, and by the way, this entire trajectory of story is probably over the last like eight years. Like this is how fast we've changed our understanding of how muscle grows. The sarpa reticulum thing five years ago is, was bro science. Now it's, it's pretty well established. The ation thing was eight to 10 years ago. It's changing every week. This paper we just submitted this week showed actually why we had generally thought a few years ago, and in fact you can find me on podcasts and probably in some of my videos talking about this. And I'm gonna tell you right now, those things are wrong. Like we've just had new things come out in these last couple years where that d training effect we thought was the reason of, well, what happens is if you had the muscle before and you've brought in these nuclei and they differentiated and turned into, into nuclei and then the muscle got small again, you've preserved those nuclei and that's why when you go to train again, they were already around.

1 (1h 1m 19s):
So the muscle grows faster the second time that it did the first time. Well now it looks like that's actually not the case. In fact, it's actually probably hap what's happening is it's a, it's a epigenetic change in the nuclei ability to access the DNA needed to grow muscle. It's effectively the analogy we used, it's the nuclei are remembering how to ride a bike. So it's quite funny that you said that because it's not really necessarily that they're being preserved over time. They, they have learned the sequence it takes to grow the protein there and it goes, it happens faster the second time. And we've also learned that there are specific nucle we've known this for actually a a while. We, we've found this in our lab and we didn't discover it.

1 (1h 2m 1s):
We just, we saw this in, in our sum of our hybrids. But there are different shapes, the nuclei, some are more oval, some are more elongated, and the shape determines a lot of the function. Some of them are hanging out more towards the periphery and some of 'em are hanging out right around the nucleus. Well, it looks like there's actually probably different types of nuclei, a lot of 'em that are specific to the mitochondria. In fact, you can see like on some of the imaging we have, we're just like, they're just packed around the, the mi the mitochondria. And there are some that are probably specific to injury repair. And so this is probably explaining a lot of the, the individual variation. I mean I know you've, you've said previously like you're just a very, you're very slow at recovering. There's a lot of things that go into that and I would, I would love to walk through sort of all the buckets maybe later into recovery.

1 (1h 2m 46s):
But one of the inherent genetic variations is could be simply that you maybe have more or less of the nuclei responsible for tissue repair. That's something that's been happening in the last like handful of months that's been coming out. We'll see if that holds up is true or not. So as we're learning more and more almost every day about muscle physiology, what's super fun and interesting and I think the most exciting what to do in terms, in terms of like how to train and how to eat and how to do everything else to get these adaptations has been pretty well established for a long, long, long time. Or just figuring out how, like what's happening in the muscle now, but we know what to do. So from a practical standpoint, putting together protocols for any outcome that you want or don't want for any modality.

1 (1h 3m 33s):
You don't have a gym, you have weights, you have dumbbells only, you only have kettlebells. You don't want to, you only use body weight. We can, you only have three days a week, you have seven days a week. You wanna maximize muscle growth, you wanna get a little bit stronger. Any of these variables you wanna throw at me, we have a large evidence base for exactly how to get those adaptations and not others. So while we have a lot to learn about the mechanisms and the physiology, we have pretty good legs to stand on terms of what to do to get whatever adaptations you want.

0 (1h 4m 1s):
So what are the essential components of an effective strength and hypertrophy protocol?

1 (1h 4m 5s):
Okay, so what I would like to actually do is, is walk you through both of those because as we mentioned before, they overlap. But the training needs to be differentiated so that you can optimize either strength hypertrophy or if you actually want, you can get a combination of both. This allows you to then get the adaptation you want, avoid ones you don't want, and then get it even a combination if that's the preference. So you, a lot of people will talk about, I want to get a little stronger, I want to add some muscle. That's a different answer than someone who wants to truly maximize muscle, which is a different answer from somebody who maximizes wants to maximize strength, which is a different answer from somebody who wants to maximize strength but not actually gain muscle. So we have all these combinations. What's important to understand before we get into the details is a couple of things.

1 (1h 4m 49s):
Number one, we, we've been teasing this concept so far of the concepts are few, but the methods are many. And so I want to hit those concepts right now. These are as you, as you say, these are the non-negotiables that have to happen in any training program. And I'm referring to these in the strength and hyper the conversation. But these are true of power development, speed development, muscular endurance, endurance, any other thing. These are things that just have to happen for any training program to work. I mentioned one a little bit earlier, which was adherence. And so the, my frequent collaborator, Dan Garner, will constantly say consistency beats intensity again. In fact, the literature will show you very clearly adherence is the number one predictor of physical fitness outcomes.

1 (1h 5m 35s):
So we wanna do something that you will engage in, we'll you'll put effort into and you'll be able to repeat consistently over time. So that's number one. The second one is, and this is a major reason that people don't hit their fitness goals. In fact, I would argue outside of not doing it, the number one mistake they make is progressive overload. So I'm gonna walk you through exactly how much you should be increasing your sets and reps and weight et cetera, per week, per month later. But that's the biggest thing. You have got to have some sort of overload. The body works as an adaptation mechanism, right? So in fact we, we talked previously about the Harvard fatigue lab and one of the things actually people don't realize is the concept of homeostasis is actually comes from research at the harbor fatigue lab.

1 (1h 6m 23s):
It was work that they did on an endurance runner, I forget his name. And they sort of realized that after a long period of time working out, this is an acute exercise spout, the body actually comes back to some stable place despite the fact he was continuing to work. And that's exactly what bore the phrase steady state. And that actually then they launched off and said, wow, there's this state that the body wants to be in and we'll call this homeostasis. So that those all concept came out of exercise physiology, which is really, really cool, right? We don't get a lot of love a lot of times scientifically, but that's a good one that we took. So why that all matters is we have got to achieve some sort of overload without going excess. So we'll cover that later of exactly what to do and we'll get, potentially get into over-training and monitoring and measuring things like that.

1 (1h 7m 9s):
But you have to have some sort of consistent predictable overload. That's what's gonna cause adaptation to continue to cause stress. If you don't do that, you can still do things like burn calories, you can still get some of the other benefits of exercise like improved mood, cognitive function, et cetera, et cetera. Flexibility increases, all of those can happen without a progressive overload. But if you want to see these gains and strength and hypertrophy, you really need to progressively overload. So that's concept number two. The third one here is going to be individualization. And this is where we can get into things like personal preference, you know, equipment availability, you have kettlebells or dumbbells or you only have bands or you have none of that.

1 (1h 7m 50s):
These are all smaller details, but that's an important component to it. The last one I really want to get into is picking the appropriate target. And we went through this when we talked about the fitness protocol and, and if you run through something like that and you run some testing and figure out where your biggest limitations are, that's gonna help you identify where you need to go. So if you can do all those things, you're going to be in a good spot to balance specificity and variation. All right? So if you wanna make sure you grow your biceps, you better make sure your biceps are working. Having said that, if you over-rely on specificity, you're going to increase the likelihood of overuse injuries, which is going to come back and actually hamper consistency over time.

1 (1h 8m 36s):
Alright, so this is when hedging towards specificity is important, but too much can cause a problem if you go the other direction and you go too much variation. So imagine you're just sort of doing all kinds of different exercises every time you, you work out that's actually not enough stimuli directly on the muscle or muscle groups or movement pattern if you're wanting to learn a new movement to get you very far. And so this is a classic problem of I'm doing a lot of work, but I don't have a very clear direction. I lack specificity. So I'm working, but I'm not seeing a lot of improvements. And this is like in the business world, et cetera. This is like doing a whole bunch of different things means you get nothing really done. So that's the game we're gonna play here, right? How do we overload this stuff? How do we make sure we're balancing specificity and variation?

1 (1h 9m 18s):
How do we make sure I want to do this? And then how do I individualize it from my needs and circumstances and and movement restrictions and of time availability and my calendar and desires and all these things. So those are the concepts we absolutely have to hit. The methods that we choose run across a handful of variables and we call these things modifiable variables because as you modify them or you make different choices within these variables, you get different outcomes or adaptations. This is exactly what determines the nine adaptations. So we that we've been talking about. So the way that I like to say this is exercises do not determine adaptation.

1 (1h 9m 60s):
So you can't simply go, I want to get stronger, therefore I'm going to choose these exercises. That's not how it works. What determines adaptation is the execution of the exercises. So a deadlift is my favorite example. A deadlift is a common example that people think of when they wanna choose a lower body strength exercise. But a deadlift will not increase your strength unless you're executing it in the proper fashion. I'm not even talking about technique here, I'm talking about these modifiable variables. The same thing for power exercises will commonly see mistakes of doing activities like a box jump, which is great. People think, oh, I'm gonna get improve my power, which we know is extremely highly correlated to activities of daily living and particularly living unassisted as you age, right?

1 (1h 10m 46s):
Is reduction of power. So they'll do an activity like a box jump. What they're failing to realize is unless you do it powerfully, you won't actually increase power. If you don't move faster, you won't get faster. So the the, the way that we manipulate these variables is everything to determining the adaptation you get or again don't get. So with that foundation, I think we can kind of run right into these things and we can start off with perhaps speed and power. And what I, what I would like to do is walk you through all those modifiable variables, what to do with them, and then hit you with as many different methodologies as as we really have time for. And then we'll move on to strength and hypertrophy and kind of round the entire thing out.

1 (1h 11m 30s):
And then maybe at the end we can talk some other variables like what happens if I have a training protocol and I'm halfway through it and I can't finish my workout? What should I do? Reduce my weight or reduce my duration or things like that. So there's lots of what if scenarios that we can go through that potentially a lot of people listening have questions about. So, sounds like a plan,

0 (1h 11m 50s):
Sounds like a plan

Inside Tracker (1h 11m 52s):
. I'd like to take a brief break to acknowledge our sponsor inside Tracker. Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health and wellbeing can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. One issue with a lot of blood tests and DNA tests out there however, is that you get information back about various levels of lipids and hormones and metabolic factors, et cetera, but you don't know what to do with that information. Inside Tracker makes knowing what to do with all that information. Exceedingly easy. They have a personalized platform that lets you see what your specific numbers are of course, but then also what sorts of behavioral dos and don'ts, what sorts of nutritional changes, what sorts of supplementation would allow you to bring those levels into the ranges that are optimal for you. If you'd like to try inside tracker, you can visit inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off any of inside tracker's plans. Again, that's inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off.

0 (1h 12m 54s):
So just to interrupt briefly and make sure that I and everybody else have in mind the proper nine adaptations that we've been referring to and that were discussed in detail in episode one. I have listed number one, skill and technique number two, speed number three, power, which is speed times force number four, strength number five, hypertrophy. Number six, muscular endurance. Number seven, anaerobic capacity. Number eight, maximal aerobic capacity. And number nine, long duration steady state exercise.

1 (1h 13m 31s):
Yep, you nailed it, thank you for for that. It was probably important clarification for everybody. So that being said, let, let's jump right into to speed and power. Now I'll do these a little bit simultaneously. They are different. If you're a high performance athlete, you really need to separate these two things. For the most people though, we can probably think about them as as the same thing. There's not a lot of pure speed training that the general public is, is interested in. If you wanna actually further break down speed, there are multiple components, there's acceleration, there's top-end velocity, there's change of direction or agility and things like that. So we'll just kind of call all that speed and power for now. Now at the onset there's this three to five concept that, that we talked about many times where this is really fairly true for speed, power, or strength.

1 (1h 14m 22s):
Now I, I didn't develop the three to five. It's just an easy way to help you remember one concept that will run true across all these things. So three to five it refers to three to five days per week. Pick three to five exercises and you're gonna do three to five repetitions per set. You'll do three to five sets and you'll rest three to five minutes between each set. If you do that and you execute any of the exercises that you choose at a high intent and that part is critical, you don't get faster by moving kind of fast. You can't improve power by moving like eh, powerfully.

1 (1h 15m 5s):
You have to be trying regardless of whether you're actually moving faster or not. Anytime you're talking about speed or power, you're by definition using sub maximal weights. So you're going to be able to lift it. That's not the question. The question is how fast can you lift that implement? And so intention is incredibly important. So if you do that, the same for strength by the way. So if you land on that, that allows you to run the gamut from as little as three days a week you're doing a three exercises, you're gonna do three sets of three, which is a very, very low volume. It's a very low amount of days, easy to handle all the way to five sets of five of five exercises five days a week.

1 (1h 15m 45s):
So it, it, it's, again, it's just one sample that's something easy to remember and is quite effective for a very long time. And this has been tested quite extensively in, in both the coaching realms as well as the scientific realms to be quite productive and and easy to follow and grasp. If you do that, all you need to do is slightly increase the load or the volume, but mostly the load over time. And the number we wanna look for there is something like a three to 5% increase per week. So an example would be if you're going to do an exercise at a hundred pounds, you can't necessarily just add five pounds every week. That's gonna, it's up to you pretty quickly.

1 (1h 16m 25s):
And so you may have to run some, a smaller increment if you're doing like a lower body exercise where you might have a couple of hundred pounds on the weight, you can probably get away with adding five pounds cause it's still a, a low percentage of the total load. So that's roughly the guide that we want to get to for speed, power, and strength.

0 (1h 16m 43s):
So that sounds incredibly simple and effective yet I have a number of questions. Sure. First off, if somebody is using the three to five approach, does that mean they should not be doing any other weight training of any kind in those workouts or at all?

1 (1h 17m 2s):
No, you, you can certainly do that in combination with anything else you would like. Especially if you think about speed and power, those are very non fatiguing. And so if you could imagine you're gonna go to the beach and you're gonna take a 10 pound to 20 pound medicine ball with you and you're gonna do, you know, four different exercises where you're throwing the medicine ball as high as you can in the air four times in a row taking a break and you do two or three hits that and you do maybe three or four different types of throws that's very good for improving power, extremely good, but it's not very fatiguing. So you could certainly finish that workout in 20 minutes and then run on and then do any number of other things. So you could do some high intensity anaerobic capacity work, you could do steady state stuff, you could, you could even do hypertrophy on top of that.

1 (1h 17m 49s):
So there's a, there's two major categories of what we call periodization. There's, there's many, many, many of them, but the two that have the most scientific literature are what's called linear periodization. And another is called undulating are often daily undulating periodization. And I'm flagging these two again despite the fact there are many, many, many more because they represent two different concepts. What you actually just touched upon. So linear periodization is a hallmark by basically saying we're going to train one adaptation at a time. So imagine going say six to eight weeks and you're only doing strength or you're only doing hypertrophy, you're endurance for that matter. So in that particular case, you, you would not do anything else in combination.

1 (1h 18m 31s):
If you contrast that to undulating periodization, you would actually be doing multiple different styles of training ev with either within the same day or just different days. So it could be Monday is power, Wednesday is strength, Friday is hypertrophy, whatever. Or it could be a little bit of strength every single day. A little bit of hypertrophy every day, a little bit of power every day. And you would just change the amount of each that you do within the day to alter the emphasis. All right, now if you look at the studies and there have been many RCTs on this, the result of both of these training programs is generally basically the same thing. They are equally effective. Here's the major difference though.

1 (1h 19m 13s):
One, if your goal is very specific to one outcome, you wanna hedge towards specificity. So if you're like, Hey, I'm trying to maximize the amount of muscle I can build in the next eight weeks, then you don't really, anything else besides that is just distraction and potential interference. Does it really matter or not? Doesn't matter, but it's not helping anything else. So linear periodization is, is fundamental at providing focus and therefore the, the adaptations tend to be oftentimes larger in that specific area. That downside is you now go six to eight to 10 weeks of doing nothing else. And so you are losing those other adaptations at a great, at a faster rate. And you can imagine doing something like speed work only.

1 (1h 19m 55s):
Again, speed work by definition is non fatiguing. So when oftentimes we think of speed work, it's like, oh, I did ladder drills and I did all these things and like I threw up at the end. That's not speed work. You just did a different type of endurance training, okay, which is great and important. So true speed work is very high rest, very low fatigue and actually truly trying to reach a new level of speed or velocity. So non fatiguing, if you did that exclusively for 10 weeks, you would be pretty unfit by the end of it cuz you did, you would also lose a decent amount of muscle mass, not because there's an interference effect, but simply because of the fact you have not stimulated muscle growth for eight to 10 weeks. And so neither one of these is better than the other. We're gonna see this classically across all program design or puritization strategies is it's just a, it's a give and tick.

1 (1h 20m 41s):
There are tons of different systems and, and perhaps at the end we can talk about some of the more advanced puritization styles. These ones are, are are both effective. You could do these with beginners, you could do these with advanced athletes, you could do them any of the spectrum, but they're, they're some of the more well documented ones. It's just a pro and con game, right? It's, it's what are you willing to give up? The way that you solve that problem is going back to that fitness assessment and your analysis and really truly understanding what your goal is. Is your goal to do a little bit of strength and a little but I, okay, great. Maybe undulated Puritization is an approach. If your goal is really to maximize strength and maybe you can wait on putting some muscle mass on, maybe linear puritization is a better approach or another style of puritization that's optimal for strength gain.

1 (1h 21m 26s):
So it's just simply about addressing your things. One of the major problems folks have in addition to lacking progressive overload is they don't have any foresight past the next day of the training, right? And so it's really important that you set off blocks that are anywhere between six to 12 weeks long where you're going to have the specific plan. Ideally you have an idea for the whole year. I actually have like a a structure I could walk you through for that. But even if you don't have that, really think about what you want the next 12 weeks and then maybe the next 12 weeks after that. And that's gonna give you a lot of guidance about what to do and what to focus on.

0 (1h 22m 3s):
Terrific. What about warming up? I was taught that one should do higher repetition movements with lighter weights in order to warm up. And then one of the things that did make a big positive difference for me in terms of strength and hypertrophy training was to do a moderate repetition warmup with a fairly lightweight but then to actually keep the number of warmup repetitions fairly low and work progressively toward the first so-called work set. When you say three to five, that's three to five work sets, correct? Yep. Are you also gonna tell me three to five warmups? No. Are you also gonna tell me it has to be done between three and 5:00 PM So in terms of it's three, three

1 (1h 22m 46s):
And five friends,

0 (1h 22m 47s):
In all seriousness, what does a, a good warmup look like? Yeah, and I realize this will vary depending on how cool your training environment is, time of day, et cetera. But as a kind of umbrella for a good warmup. Okay, what should people do

1 (1h 23m 4s):
The, you've already sort of jumped the gun with both my answer it, it is honestly very dependent upon the person. So some folks respond very well to a minimum more. Well others, I've had lots of actually professional fighters I've worked with where the, I actually have a major league baseball player right now. He's one of the best patriot pitchers in the game. Probably the best. And the longer we warm up, the better his numbers get. We actually did a vertical jump test with him. He's gonna kill me cuz he got so mad. I wanted to see how long it sort of took him to reach a peak vertical jump. And most times this takes people something like five to 10 sort of reps and I said take it up all the way to a maximum vertical jump. And then what I want you to do is continue to jumping until you have three consecutive jumps or you're down lower than 90%.

1 (1h 23m 48s):
And so what we're trying to look at is sort of when is he gonna break? Cuz in baseball he's gonna throw like a hundred pitchers or so and we're trying to figure out when is his peak velocity on his fast ball gonna drop and sort of base his conditioning on that. So it's a different style of conditioning, it's power endurance, it's really what it's, he called me in the middle of it and I'm like, oh you done whatever. And he's just like, no, like how many of these am I supposed to do? And I was like, what are you talking about? He's like, I'm on rep 130 or something. And I was like, what? And I'm like, what rep did you peak on? He peaked on rep 70, something like that. 69 I think technically cuz he's goofy. So he's a classic example I've worked in for many, many years. We have a ton of data on him, a ton of biological data, a ton of neuromuscular stuff like all kinds of stuff.

1 (1h 24m 30s):
And it just, the more he warms up an absurd amount of warmup, the better he gets and the better he gets in power production and the better he gets in speed and velocity. So his warmup prior to games is, it's totally absurd and just the more volume we throw at him, the better he does. I have other folks, you get past like two or three reps and fatigues are to set in and now you're actually like reducing power production. So there is a ton of variation that goes in that. I can give you some guidelines though. You need to differentiate if you're training for speed, power, strength, or approach speed. Here's why. If we understand a little bit about what's causing the adaptation, that's going to tell you what you need to do or avoid.

1 (1h 25m 11s):
For example, volume is the primary driver in hypertrophy. Intensity is the primary driver in speed, power, and strength. All right? Which, what that means is you need to preserve intensity for the first three. You need to preserve volume in the second one at most. So if your up is so extensive in the hypertrophy training that it compromises your training volume because of fatigue, even if it compromises the last set of the last exercise, then you're actually probably walking yourself backwards By doing that extensive, you would've been better off starting your first working set. Slightly suboptimal, right? Because it's not really, you're just trying to accrue volume at that point. Strength empowers the opposite until you're moving very, very fast or powerfully, you're not really causing the adaptation.

1 (1h 25m 58s):
So there's no point in starting your working set until you're really basically at a hundred percent. So the warmup should be as long, long as it takes you to get to where your mobility's in the right spot, like your joints feel good, you feel fresh, you feel activated, and you really feel peak power. Anything before that is a warmup set In the sport of Olympic weightlifting, a lot of times the coaches will measure barbell velocity. Travis Mash has done a fantastic job with this. He's got a lot of data on what's called velocity based training on Brian Mann at Missouri and and Miami. Tons of work here. And generally those communities are not going to count any repetition as a working set until you exceed 70% of your one rep max.

1 (1h 26m 38s):
Where that's changed because of a lot of people doing the velocity based stuff is now they're basing that simply on an achieved velocity. And so really the warmup is irrelevant. They don't even, it's sort of just like, do whatever you want and we're gonna measure the barbell until you actually hit an outcome and now you're at where a working set. So different ways to think about it, depending on what you're training for, that'll give you a little bit of a guideline. If you're training for anything past hypertrophy, then really, and especially even hypertrophy, it just comes down to are you feeling ready to work? Are you cold, are you moving through the correct positions? And if all those things are fine, I don't care if you start a little bit early and save some gas. The, especially if you're a person like you who may be a bit more inclined to fatigue quickly relative to Trevor who's just has no responsibility whatsoever.

0 (1h 27m 28s):
Is it useful to do more warmup at the beginning of a workout, say before the first exercise and then once one has achieved both local and systemic Yep. Warmup in air quotes, then perhaps on the second or third exercise, fourth exercise, et cetera, one or maybe even zero warmups.

1 (1h 27m 51s):
Yeah, fair point. We generally think about warmups in a couple of ways. This is a really, actually, this is a very clever question. You wanna have some sort of general global warmup scheme. We tend to prefer dynamic warmups. So this is whole body movements rather than like sitting and stretching, static stretching, things like that.

0 (1h 28m 10s):
So, so something that involves momentum.

1 (1h 28m 12s):
Yeah, momentum or movement, right? So this is like, think about this in like old gym class, it's like your high knees and you're and your butt kickers and just different things like that where you're moving in different planes, you're moving joints through tons of range of motion. You're, you're getting a lot of movement there. So you're getting the local warmup, you're also getting the, the total systemic activation. Everything else is going on there. So that is what would be considered to be a general warmup. Five minutes is, is a very sufficient number, perhaps 10 if you're a slow goer, achy and some things like that. And you really gotta get the ankle warmed up. If you're doing lower body stuff, really make sure that that's moving correctly. The hips and knees will follow upper body stuff.

1 (1h 28m 52s):
Really get the shoulder blades and the neck like making sure you're going there and ev the elbows will follow after that. So five to seven minutes of a general warmup. A lot of the times like classic exercise science, it will even just put you on a bike cycling for five minutes. I don't like that personally. Dynamic movement is more preferred. If you really just move for five to seven minutes, you'll be fine there. Now specificity within each movement, it is very important that your first exercise of the day is generally the thing you've prioritized. That's oftentimes the most important you're going to do for it oftentimes is also the most complex and the most moving parts. So it tends to be multi-joint, it tends, therefore you need to have movement precision and skilled dialed, right?

1 (1h 29m 36s):
You don't typically start your workouts off with the forearm curl, right? Like that's, you don't need a tremendous amount of warmup to get going on that you're gonna start off with medicine ball throws or a snatch or some agility work. You, you need to have the whole system going because multiple joints are moving. Position matters technique, there's just a lot of skill requirement, et cetera. So the individualized workout or this specific workout for the specific movement for that very first one, my general rule of thumb is like whatever it takes to move perfect in that first exercise, past that, you don't necessarily need to do individualized warmups for your next movements unless it is a movement you're trying to learn or just even get a little bit better at like drop the load a little bit, work on some accruing, some practice reps.

1 (1h 30m 25s):
Fantastic. Or it's another dissimilar complex movement. So let's say your first exercise was a, a front squat and you got loaded for that and now you're gonna move into a pull-up but your mechanics aren't the best there and so you really need to change and do some maybe more specific the activation of warmups for that or something else. Or it's running or, or something totally different. So yeah, you don't need to rewarm up for every single exercise as you go. Generally once you're good to go, the same muscles that you're going to use in the next exercise are warm, same joints, then you're good to go.

0 (1h 30m 56s):
You talked about intent within the movement. What about specific cadences for repetitions? Yep. I was taught that one should lower the weight slowly, the so-called eccentric portion of the movement and then two, try and explode the weight through the concentric phase and then also make sure that one is using full range of motion and perfect form. Yeah. As it were. Now of course that is one tiny slice of the possible rep cadences. Yeah. And ways to approach resistance training, although I think it's a pretty good one.

0 (1h 31m 39s):
Yeah. What are the general parameters sets that one needs to consider? You could imagine lifting, you know, four seconds concentric, pause for one, pause for two eccentric. I realize there's an infinite number of variations here. Yep. But is there a way to use rep cadence, repetition, cadence that is as a way to work through weak points and to be strong in every position of the movement?

1 (1h 32m 3s):
Yeah, a lovely question. I think the, the way I would like to answer this is maybe going back just a touch to get directly to that. So I think if we walk through power, strength, and hypertrophy and I hit you with the concepts that are specific to each one, that's going to lay out your answer because the most true answer there is, it depends on the goal. The answer for what is optimal for strength is diametrically opposed for potentially what's optimized for hypertrophy. The same exact thing can be said for momentum. So we've classically heard things like this, you know, don't bounce at the bottom, you're cheating, right? So if you're doing a lap pull down or something, you know, you don't, you don't bounce and rebound, you don't, you know, you stop at the bottom, slow down.

1 (1h 32m 50s):
All these things are thought to be truisms of strength conditioning. But guess what? Those are all truisms assuming or trying to grow muscle. And that's, that actually goes back to our conversation in in episode one about a lot of the things we think are just fundamental truths about strength training are just fundamental truths that came from the body building world. And they're not wrong, they're good ideas, but there are other adaptations one needs to get from strength training that are not just maximizing mouse to grow. So what I will lay out to you as a case for which you should bounce a case for when you should go fast, this case for when you should be under control, all of these things are, are different variables we can modify and get different adaptations

0 (1h 33m 32s):
For it. Is there a way that you could lay out for us optimal repetition cadences for strength specifically versus hypertrophy specifically just to sort of bookend the conversation and then migrate toward the middle in terms of rep cadences that would satisfy the desire to have a bit of both.

1 (1h 33m 52s):
We can get pretty close. Yeah. So when you're talking about strength versus hypertrophy, remember strength is a movement. Hypertrophy is muscle size. That's, that's the key to your answer here. So when you're trying to get stronger, what you're effectively trying to do is get better at producing a certain amount of force movement. Okay? Now force is mass times acceleration. So what's the mass in the bar multiplied by how well I can accelerate it intentionally going slower is only reducing acceleration, right? So it's hard to argue that going slower is going to improve strength cuz you're simply reducing acceleration.

1 (1h 34m 38s):
So you need to practice lifting heavier at a faster rate. Now does that mean if you're trying to get stronger, there are no phases of your training in which you'll slow down or pos No, of course not. There are certain rules in different organizations where you have to pause the bottom of a, like there's, there's all kinds of little things like that. But in general we wanna think about what are we trying to do here? We're trying to get better at moving a heavier mass at a faster rate of acceleration. That is more force that is more strength. Hypertrophy is not that the goal here is not a a functional outcome. It is what is needed to cause the most amount of hypertrophy.

1 (1h 35m 19s):
And when you get to hypertrophy, then your optimal cadence is up to you. You can do any combination. In fact you could do it the same exact cadence that you did your strength training with and get the same adaptations as hypertrophy if you modify the other variables appropriately. Or you could go slower or you could do pauses or you could do a, a thing that is called triassic training where you spend the first phase several weeks of your training where you do eccentrics only. So you're just lowering the bar, you're basically stopping. You could then do the next phase of your training, which is isometrics, where you're just holding at that bottom position. And then the next phase of your training, you're focusing on the concentric portion of it, right?

1 (1h 35m 59s):
Triassic, 1, 2, 3, eccentric, isometric, concentric. So that's a fantastic way of, of developing actually strength, a little bit of hypertrophy. But you're manipulating the variables in terms of how you execute the repetition range. You can actually induce a lot of hypertrophy moving the way fast, as you mentioned even down downlow under control. Now one thing where we'll never advocate is moving any sort of weight or load uncontrolled. The assumption here when I'm saying go fast is you're always in control. I never want you bouncing and crushing your sternum with the barbell off your desk. But you, you can move at a, a lot of rates. You can, the isometric I mentioned because this is when things like body weight training coming to play, absolutely you can gain strength and even a little bit of hypertrophy, especially in the upper body doing isometrics, it's much harder to do this with the lower body.

1 (1h 36m 48s):
You just, you just, you outrun that coverage really quickly. You need load. But there's a lot of ways, this is also probably why people have done things like gone to yoga only or Pilates or some of these things that are body weight based and there's no external load and they've actually increased muscle size.

0 (1h 37m 4s):
So I'm getting the picture. There are a ton of options. Yeah. In terms of rep cadences, however, can we say that one should pick a given rep cadence within an exercise rather than changing it from set to set within an exercise? Or that one should perhaps even pick a certain rep cadence for an entire workout. I'm suspecting that your answer is going to be, it depends.

1 (1h 37m 26s):
Yeah, it

0 (1h 37m 26s):
Is. But if you know, I'm not gonna use the, if you had a gun to your head kind of situation, but if you had a gun to your head, what would be the rep cadence that you would prescribe? Yeah, for strictly strength or as much strength with as little hypertrophy as possible and in picking that rep cadence, then it therefore has to thread throughout the entire Yeah, sure. Exercise bout,

1 (1h 37m 49s):
So you're actually right, you can because of that undulating periodization stuff I talked about, you can actually do this in a lot of ways. So you could do one exercise at the beginning where you have a set cadence, say a three 11 is like a very one.

0 (1h 38m 2s):
So that's, so that's lifting for three. Pause for one lower for one,

1 (1h 38m 8s):
Generally the

0 (1h 38m 8s):
Opposite. Okay. So the first number is always the eccentric generally. Okay. So lower depending on exercise lowering the the wait for a count of three. Yeah, pause for one.

1 (1h 38m 17s):
It totally depends on the exercise. Like a deadlift starts concentric and finishes eccentric. But a bench press starts the opposite.

0 (1h 38m 22s):
Okay. So it start to

1 (1h 38m 23s):
Finish. Start to finish is the better way to think about it. Yeah. So in, I'll clarify actually, when we say three 11, we're generally talking about almost always the ecentric is the slower portion regardless if it's the first or the last, right? So whether you're doing a bench press where the eccentric is lowering the bar to your chest, that's the first part of the movement. 1, 2, 3, pause one, one up, which means accelerate as hard as you can on the way up. That's what you

0 (1h 38m 50s):
Describe, right? As opposed to say a row

1 (1h 38m 52s):
A row, which is actually gonna be starting off concentric. So you're gonna be pulling that thing to your chest as fast as you can under control, not slamming off your chest, holding for one second and then taking three seconds to lower it back on the rack or on the ground or whatever. So the reason we do that is, is somewhat intuitive, but it is again to make sure you're not advancing a bar or an implement onto your physical body at an extremely fast rate that that's very difficult to to deal with. So a A three 11 is a very standard strength protocol. That is is something you can just run with. If that's all you ever wanted to do, it'd be absolutely fine.

0 (1h 39m 26s):
Lower the bar for a count of three. It actually ends up being approximately three. It's super, hardly anybody is counting off seconds. Precisely. I mean it's, I suppose it's doable but then pausing briefly. Yep.

1 (1h 39m 38s):
And that brief is almost, that pause is almost unmeasurable. It is simply are you under control before you transition from the center to concentric concept each second. It's just a safety thing. So once you feel down, you've reached complete range of motion, you're ready to transition, then just go. You don't really need to go like 1,001 and then go up it just making sure again, we don't slam weights off of body

0 (1h 39m 60s):
Parts. And that final one in the three 11 is, is really as fast as you can the execution of the usually concentric portion of, of the exercise.

1 (1h 40m 8s):
Yep. As fast as you

0 (1h 40m 9s):
Possibly can. Okay. So that would be for the majority of the outcome being strength. Yep. Okay. And of course we should acknowledge again there are a ton of variations that one could implement there, but that, that would be a good starting place on the opposite side for somebody who's mainly interested in hypertrophy. Yep. What would be the rep cadence that if you had a gun to your head that you would prescribe?

1 (1h 40m 34s):
I would probably do the exact same thing, but I would like, I would make the last number two. So 3 1 2, you could also just keep three one on it is still very fine. Even exploding on the contract is still effect highly effective for training hypertrophy. So if you wanted to keep it super simple and just, just make rep cadence, not a variable that you play with cuz you have other ones to move, that's great. If you wanna add a little bit of time to the concentric phase, fine it, it's not gonna do, it's not going to make enough of a difference for most people for you to really worry about. I guess it, that's sort of the point I really wanna make. This is we're classically, this is a classic example of we're deep into a method, right?

1 (1h 41m 17s):
If as long as you hit the concepts I talked about earlier, whether you wanna do 3 11, 3, 2, 3, 3, 3, 3 triassic things, this is just a method choice. That doesn't mean they're irrelevant. They are, there are subtle changes within them. It's just 80 20 rule, right? So 80% of the benefit is gonna be from the concept, 20% is his small thing. If you're super into this field or you actually wanna work with a qualified certified coach or something, they, there's lots of reasons to play with this. If you're just on your own here and running this thing, three 11 is fine, three 12, totally fine. Anything like that, you really just wanna make sure that in the strength side of the equation, you're under control and you can add enough load to stimulate strength and not get hurt with an acute trauma.

1 (1h 42m 4s):
Right? On the hypertrophy side, you're just wanting to load enough to where you can hit volume, cuz you gotta put a lot on there. So if you wanna go lighter, if you wanna go slower, fine. You, if you go slower in your repetition, so maybe even like a five sec second eccentric, a two second pause, a three second rise, that's great. You can actually then stimulate the same amount of hypertrophy and either do it with less weight or do it with less repetitions. So it's a variable you can play with. If you're like, Hey, I don't have enough weights at my house, or I only have a kettlebell or a dumbbell, how am I going to stimulate hypertrophy? Your only option is really doing more reps. Well eventually that, that train runs pretty shallow.

1 (1h 42m 46s):
Okay. Here's the thing you can play with, maybe just add time under tension is what we're calling it, right? Just, you know, do slower repetitions, go longer ones and hold it. So it's a variable that we use to individualize programs rather than something that you should really be focused on as like a core aspect that's gonna be driving whether or not your program works. It's just a tool we can play with in the what if scenarios. I will use this stuff a lot when I'm traveling. You can do a tremendous workout in your hotel room, just doing like a ten second ecentric, a ten second hold, a 10 centric concentric.

0 (1h 43m 17s):
Yeah, I've had some decent hotel room workouts. They're not my preference, but by simply doing things like ten second lowering handstand pushup against the door, totally obviously assisted for me. I don't, I can't do a free handstand pushup. Yeah. I, I just don't have the skill or the strength or both. You can do some sort of configured dips between the beds or chairs and this kind of thing. Rear

1 (1h 43m 44s):
Foot elevated split squats are great to do in hotels. Put your back foot up on a, on a bed and get a, an amazing split squat workout done. Yeah. Glue bridges, lots of stuff you

0 (1h 43m 52s):
Can do there. Yeah. I'm with a jump rope. If you've ever heard someone jumping in the, in the morning. Me too. Yeah. It may or may not have been me. Could be any number of things, but I am known to skip rope in, in hotel rooms. Not to get overly detailed, but I think there are going to be a number of people wondering about how to breathe during repetitions and how to breathe in between sets. So I'd like to just briefly touch on this, and this is something that I know we're going to return to again when we have our discussion about recovery. Yep. But is there a general rule of thumb for how to breathe during repetitions during work? Yep. For strength, maybe even strength versus hypertrophy in, in a way that maximizes oxygen input to the system.

0 (1h 44m 37s):
You know, keeps you alert and conscious, but that also protects the body by creating some rigidity in the system. Right. Because certainly being de with all your air exhaled the body is a very different beast. Yeah. In terms of stability than with the body full of air versus, you know, breathing during the repetition movement,

1 (1h 44m 57s):
There's a, a maneuver that is long been labeled the Valsalva technique. So what that really means is you're trying to use air to create intraabdominal pressure. And what you're really trying to do is create a cylinder around your spine. The real issue you have to to play here is regulation of blood pressure and spinal stability. Now you should be able to breathe and brace. What I mean by that is you should be able to create total intraabdominal pressure, regulate spine control while breathing. It's just very hard for a lot of people to do. It's, it's a skill you should absolutely work on. You can actually, you can do this and you can go around like I do this trick in class and students can come and like push any part of my entire abdomen super tight and I can talk now it's gonna be a little bit labored.

1 (1h 45m 42s):
You can hear a little bit of a difference, but you should be able to do that if you have to like hunch down and you can't even muster breath and it takes that to create pressure, you're not actually, you don't really understand the abdominal control necessary to create that stability. So step number one is that's the goal. Now with the blood pressure thing, we have to be careful because a standard blood pressure ideally if we sat around right now is probably something like 120 over 80 systolic versus diastolic. That's a normal number, right? High blood pressure is something over that. Well, with an acute bout of exercise, you can see that number reach as high as like four 50 over three 50, which effectively means you have total blood occlusion, right?

1 (1h 46m 23s):
Your blood pressure is so high, blood is not moving anywhere. And so in the middle of a very heavyset, especially complex movements, especially when they're loaded on your body, this can be an overhead press or, or squat variations, anything like that. Blood pressure's gonna be a problem. And the reason why that matters is that's what's gonna make you pass out. It's not the fact that you ran outta oxygen in three seconds. It's the fact that blood pressure got so high you blacked out. And so we want to have, we're gonna have to play this game of releasing a little bit of the pressure so we can actually get blood to move a little little bit. Making sure that we don't lose spinal stability so we can finish our workout. That's really the question you asked. Right? How do I play this game of, oh, I have several hundred pounds on my back or my chest and I don't want to exhale, right?

1 (1h 47m 4s):
So that I don't lose spinal stability, but at the same time I don't wanna pass out. Right. Which is a, which is a problem. So kind of a couple of rules of thumb, if you're going to be doing something in which you can complete the entire exercise without a breath and it is of a maximal or close to load, that's probably your best strategy. So in that particular case, you'll see a lot of breathing techniques where you're gonna take a very large inhale. Ideally this is done through the abdomen, not the shoulders. So we shouldn't seen clavicles rising during this thing. You'll see a common mistake of, of the bars on their back and you see people do this like big inhale thing and all they do is elevate their clavicles. That's not necessarily going to increase pressure through the abdomens, which is what you're looking for. So you wanna be thinking about belly moving out in all four areas in front of you to your left and right and to your back.

1 (1h 47m 49s):
That's that quadrant sort of idea of stabilizing your spine. You can do that independent of your clavicles moving, like your shoulders don't need to rise for that. You don't really need the oxygen for metabolic purposes. You're just using the air for a brace. That's really all you're after.

0 (1h 48m 5s):
So you're trying to visualize your torso as more or less a cylinder. Yep. And you're trying to fill it with air. The logic being that if I were to push down onto a, say a, a full unopened can of soda. Yep. Water for all your sugar phobes out there, soda water, and then push as hard as I could. It's gonna be hard for me to crush that can, but if the can were empty or if it were a little bit kinked in the middle Correct, then I could likely crush that can.

1 (1h 48m 34s):
Yeah. What you're really doing is you have your spinal erectors in the back, right. And then a whole series of abdominal exercises and you actually have some neural control, systematic control of contracting those, but the, you don't have muscles on the inside that you can do. So you're basically bringing in air and saying, I'll use air to push from the inside out and I'll use muscles to push from the outside in to create this brace. And I don't want over compression with the muscles. This is a, like if you, if you see people that have just enormous spinal erectors, sometimes that's an indicator of, of actually a poor breathing or bracing strategy because they're using spinal recors to create all their compression and not actually using the inside enough. It's not always the case, but sort of like a thing to think about.

1 (1h 49m 16s):
So over compression through the spinal erectus is not necessarily ideal. If you want it, the, the best scenario is a little bit of a brace of both. So we use some air to push this side. We use some musculature to press that way and then that, that spine is just nicely held in position. Again, not in a position where I've locked down my diaphragm and I can't get any air out. I should be able to get that brace pattern and then be able to speak in fact, like I'm doing it right now and you'll see like a little bit of a, if you're really paying attention to my voice, you can hear a little bit of a subtle difference. But I should be able to do this for quite a long time. Right. Like I, I, I could take a maximum rep right here in this position, whether I'm overhead pressing, doing some sort of row, like anything and feel very braced in in the entire quadrant.

0 (1h 49m 59s):
This is very helpful. I I'm going to work on it, but can we say that an effective way to start off in terms of breathing during repetitions would be to take a gulp of air during the lowering phase? The eccentric phase, and then to exhale during the Yep. Concentric exertion phase? I ask that because that's what I've been doing for a while and it makes me feel safe. I don't know if I am and it allows me to exhale as I exert the, the hardest portion of the exercise. Yep. And perhaps I also borrowed that from martial arts where one tends most often is trained to exhale on the, on the strike.

1 (1h 50m 39s):
Yep. If you're going to be doing, again, the number of repetitions can be completed without a breath. A lot of the times you're better off saving that exhalation until you complete

0 (1h 50m 48s):
Well, but you don't have to. But for a reasonably heavy set of hack squats or even leg extensions and given that I already can't leg extension my body weight, this is established. Maybe this is why the idea of holding my breath for an entire compound set.

1 (1h 51m 4s):
So again, I'm

0 (1h 51m 5s):
Clarifying, listen to mine, you know, like where is my insurance card, who's gonna drive me to the hospital? This kind of thing. In all seriousness, what if I wanna breathe during the set?

1 (1h 51m 18s):
Yeah. So I, I'll clarify. I'm generally meaning if you're doing like a one rep max or something like that. Okay,

0 (1h 51m 24s):
Well certain like it hold my breath for a one repetition maximum. Right. That

1 (1h 51m 27s):
You know, maybe like a double or something like that. Depending on what you're doing. Like maybe a triple a bench press you can probably do three and get away with it. A squat it gets harder deadlift. So it kind of depends on the exercise. You wanna take that breath breath though prior to the eccentric portion, not enduring. So

0 (1h 51m 44s):
Lower,

1 (1h 51m 45s):
Breathe in lock, we're set and now start our movement pattern wherever it's gonna be exhaling on the concentrate portion during it, it is fine. It's no problem. Especially if you're not extremely heavy.

0 (1h 51m 57s):
And what's your, what are your thoughts on grunting and screaming?

1 (1h 51m 60s):
Yeah, fine. I don't

0 (1h 52m 1s):
Care. Okay. I don't tend to do that. I'm occasionally known to squeal or whimper, but I do it that matches your personality. But I do it very quietly.

1 (1h 52m 7s):
I think of you and I think squeal, whimper, absolutely. Thanks. If you're going to be doing multiple repetitions, what we actually do for the NFL combine is we teach them a very specific Excel strategy. So there's one test that they do, which is they bench press 225 pounds for as many reps as possible. A lot of these people will get 25 to 40 repetitions. So we have a very specific breathing pattern. It would be something like if we think that they're gonna do around 25 reps, say that's like our goal. We might say, okay, do the first 10 without a breath and then exhale, reset and then do five breath and then you might do five breath, three breath, two breath, and then one breath per rep until we can't get anymore. So we'll have very specific strategies for them.

1 (1h 52m 48s):
So what I would say is, is think about how many you're going to complete and, and then breathe according to that. And it tends to increase in frequency as the number gets closer to failure. Cuz you're gonna want that, that error a little bit, but you just wanna make sure that when you're re when you're breathing back in, you're in a safe spot. So you don't wanna be catching that like re breath when the weight's on you. You wanna be in a locked out position or away from you or when you're standing. So it tends to be like at the end of the exercise, not in the middle of it, which is it is going to be a recipe problems if you take your breath event.

0 (1h 53m 23s):
One of the reasons I'm so happy to have you here having this discussion is we can really get into the weeds but also hit a number of questions that I hear a lot. Yep. How does one contend with the first attempt at a lift not working out? Is it too heavy something goes wrong, hopefully not at injury promoting wrong but something goes wrong. Do you count that? Do you reset the workout? And then the counterpart to that question is what do you do if it's too easy it went wrong because you didn't put enough weight on the bar. Yeah. Didn't pick up a heavy enough set of dumbbells. Do you abandon the set and and replace it with another? And I guess this is really a question of how much margin for error is there in volume?

0 (1h 54m 6s):
Yep. When doing this three by five program. Sure.

1 (1h 54m 11s):
Two things that I'd like to start with. Number one is I talked about linear puritization and undulating puritization. There's actually a new model, newish model called autoregulation, which basically says you're gonna go in today and depending on any number of biomarkers, performance markers or your performance, you will adjust your training based on how you're feeling that day. And so 70% is not, maybe for example, not necessarily 70% of your one repetition max highest ever. It's 70% of what you can actually do that day. And so it actually allows you to auto-regulate your training based on actually what's happening. And so you don't have to have as much long-term planning in your program design because it'll sort of figure itself out as you're going and you can use velocity to determine this auto regulation.

1 (1h 54m 55s):
You can use actually this like taking it up to close to a max for the day and then basing all your percentages on that daily max or a lot of different ways. So that is actually one very effective strategy. And there's a lot of research coming out on auto regulation. There's a lot of different ways to do it. So that's one thing to say. Another thing to say is this three to five, okay, it depends on if we're going for speed, power, or strength. Because while all those other variables are the same for three to five, the core difference between whether that is a power workout or a strength workout is the load, right? So if you are at a moderate load, say 30% of your one repetition max up to about 70%, that's going to be a power-based adaptation.

1 (1h 55m 40s):
Assuming you're going with high intent.

0 (1h 55m 42s):
Can you, sorry, I, I have to interrupt. Maybe just clarify what intent is.

1 (1h 55m 47s):
Yeah. You're attempting to move the implement or go through the movement pattern as fast as you can.

0 (1h 55m 52s):
Great, thank you.

1 (1h 55m 54s):
If you're trying to go for strength and you're below 70%, you're not really going to be improving strength because the total mass is not heavy enough. And so really when we say strength, we're assuming you're at at least generally 70% or higher. Now if you're new to training, totally different thing, right? But if you're moderately trained to highly trained you, you're gonna be way north of 70%. So anything below that we don't really count. Anyways, that's, those are warm up sets basically. Alright, so one thing to actually give you some very specific numbers here, and I don't have all of these memorized. We can perhaps provide a chart later or send out something to them. But there's a chart that you can look up called a ppin chart.

1 (1h 56m 36s):
How do you spell that? P R I L I P I N ppin. And there's actually been a, a few studies on it. It's, it's a, it's a, it's been old, it's been around for a very long time. It's sort of in the coaching realm. And then a handful of studies outta New Zealand came out verifying and validating a lot of it. But what it effectively does is says if strength is the goal and this comes from the the power lifting, weightlifting sort of communities or optimizing for strength, then how much time do I need to spend at each intensity range? So 70%, 80%, 90%, et cetera. Because specificity is going to say this, if you wanna get better neuromuscular guy at shooting a basketball, the most important thing you could ever do is shoot a basketball under the exact circumstances that you're going to do it right?

1 (1h 57m 25s):
Specificity always wins. If you want to get better at strength, the most important thing you need to do is that exact movement at that load. And in this case, if you wanted to get better at, you know, bench press, lifting at 100% of your max on a bench press is the most specific thing you could ever do. The more you can do that, the faster you will increase your bench press max. However, that's very hard to do without getting hurt. It's also not addressing what I call your defender. So if the reason you can't bench press higher than whatever you're benching now, it may not be your pure strength. It may be any number of things like you don't have enough muscle or technique or these things. Okay, great.

1 (1h 58m 4s):
So specificity over here, variation on the other side. And so we're playing this game we've talked about of of how do I make sure that I can have enough specificity in my training without leading to overuse injury all how do I maximize or how do I reduce my chance of injury while getting enough specificity? And so we have a classic paradigm over here. One actually training protocol you can look up is called the Bulgarian method. And the Bulgarians were an amazing at the sport of Olympic weightlifting, probably in fact the, the, the patriarch of this entire thing recently passed away. Ivan Iba Jev, Neue pocket, Hercules, one of the greatest weight lifts of all time came outta the system.

1 (1h 58m 48s):
And they do a lot of things. But one example in the Bulgarian system is you're going to do a one repetition maximum snatch, you're gonna take a little bit of a break, you'll do a one repetition maximum clean and jerk, take a little bit of a break, do a one repetition, maximum front squad, take a little bit of a break and you're gonna repeat that two to three times a day every day. That's specificity, right? Those people get extraordinarily strong. Now they don't do that all year round, they don't do that with all their lifters, but this is when we're trying to peak for a major competition like the Olympics, we are going so far into specificity and that was very counter to the Russian system at the time, which is much more of our classic periodization sort of approach. Okay? Specificity is, is tremendous.

1 (1h 59m 29s):
But in doing that, the Bulgarian just brutalize a lot of athletes, right? Because it's very difficult to handle something like that. And you can't really do that that long without getting wrecked.

0 (1h 59m 37s):
And they're, the goal is to win medals. The

1 (1h 59m 38s):
Goal is, which it's a totally different thing than longevity outta here, right? Like we're trying to push the boundaries of,

0 (1h 59m 44s):
Or aesthetic changes unless someone has a naturally balanced physique. Totally. In general, if people do one sort of movement, I find that they tend to resemble the equipment that they did that movement with over time, right? That was a joke against kettlebells.

1 (1h 59m 57s):
Of course, of course, of course. I got it. So we know specificity is technically optimal, but it's not realistic, not for that kind of a, you know, extreme situation. So how do we balance these things? Well it turns out this parin chart gives you guidelines for how much time, and by time I mean how many repetitions to stand in each of these rep ranges so that you get kind of the best of this world. You're gonna find the same thing. By the way, when we get into endurance training, there's only so much training you can do at 95% of your heart rate before it starts becoming like quite detrimental. You need to actually spend a lot of time at those lower intensities. So the per pin chart walks you through how many sets and it gives you a range like, like the, I think that the bottom of it is like how much time do you spend at like 60 to 70%?

1 (2h 0m 44s):
Everyone are at max and it says like, you know, minimum of this set to maximum of this set, but the ideal number of reps per set per week is like 18. And then it walks you through. And so there's, there's four criteria on it. I think it's 55 to 65%. Again, how many reps there? It's, it's like three to six reps per set, 18 to 30 reps total. And I think the ideal rep range is like 24, something like that. So it gives, it takes you 55 to 65, 70 to 80, 80 to 90 and the 90 plus percent. And what you'll see is the 90 plus percent number is more like one to two reps percent for a total of about seven total repetitions. If you start cruising past that, other bad things start to creep up in there.

1 (2h 1m 27s):
So that's a really effective chart. What it really highlights though, is even somebody who's trying to maximize strength, you're going to spend something like 35 or so percent of your training time between this like 55 to 65% range. So you're asking her like, well do I even count that one? The an, the answer is yeah, you know, in that range, if it's below 55, 60%, you probably don't count it. Now again, some coaches don't count unless it's even above 70. Fine, it's not a major distinction, but you're gonna spend the bulk of your time, you know, accumulating some, some technique basically, and skill and tissue tolerance, very important. The next step up is like 28% I think is, is sort of the, the cutoff of how much time you spend between 70 and 80% of everyone at max and then it jumps down to like 23% and then all the way to to 70%.

1 (2h 2m 15s):
So you can walk yourself through that and that gives you an extremely good guideline. And you'll notice all of these are still in the three to five range. It's just really you're manipulating it by total sets or total exercises. So that can give you some structure to play with.

0 (2h 2m 30s):
We will provide a link to the ppin chart. Yeah. In the show note captions training to failure when the goal is strength. Yep. Should one do it, should one avoid it or does it depend?

1 (2h 2m 45s):
Well, yeah, it always depends. The way that I'll generally say it is because of what we just outlined it in the Berlin chart. You don't have to go to failure to see strength gains, especially early or even moderate. And I'm talking maybe five plus years in your lifting career,

0 (2h 2m 59s):
Would you call beginner zero to five years of training? Intermediate five to 20 years of training?

1 (2h 3m 7s):
Yeah, something like

0 (2h 3m 7s):
That. And then advanced would be people that really put the time and energy into fine tuning their program.

1 (2h 3m 12s):
The vast majority of people who think they're advanced are, are really what we would call intermediate

0 (2h 3m 15s):
In all domains of life

1 (2h 3m 18s):
Fair. Even as a scientist, certainly it's quite rare to reach that number of advance. So I actually don't have any problem going to failure quite often. I'm also fine with people who don't want to go all the way there. You can get most of what you need getting what we call technical failure. So this is like, okay, that was really challenging, boy you started to have some breakdowns of technique. We're gonna call that. Good. The only exception here I I wanna point out is people who are either novice or beginners, they really have no concept of what 100% means. And so I think it's actually very fruitful to take them to 100% just to give them a guideline of where it's at.

1 (2h 4m 1s):
Now of course do this on exercises that they are comfortable with or close and that you maybe, maybe this is on a machine, maybe this is single joint movements or whatever it takes for them to have confidence. But I actually, I don't think you should be scared of these. They're not really that much more dangerous than anything else. There's, I mean think about it, if you're gonna do a front squat or, or any exercise and your one rep max is 200 pounds, is it really that much more dangerous to do one try at 205 pounds than it is to do five tries at 190 pounds? Like is it really that much more? No. Like it's not. So you can do, like we talked about in the the first episode, you can do a, a repetition max estimate where you get to like 85 to 95% of where you think you are and then instead of adding loads, you just do as many reps as you can Google that number and that'll tell you the conversion and estimate of what you're on at max is that's fine.

1 (2h 4m 52s):
But I also have absolutely no issue. I, in fact, I generally encourage it to pick people up to that level. Certainly not day one or, or anywhere close to that. But at some point let, let's see what you actually got. I'm just, I'm just gonna cut it off early. What I'm gonna consider to be one at max, anything more than a minor technical breakdown is, is for that crew. We're gonna stop and can call that good.

0 (2h 5m 14s):
And ideally with a spotter, especially you know, bench pressing, don't bench press alone in your basement kind of thing. Of course a few people die each year from bench pressing alone in their basement. Yep. Or use dumbbells if you're gonna do that. Yeah. Yeah. It's hard, harder to to die than using dumbbells. Yep. I suppose you could drop them on your head or something but not get stuck under them. Exercise selection and frequency of exercise implementation across the week. So I can imagine with this three by five routine done three to five times per week, you can imagine changing up the exercises every workout. Although concerning that most of these three by five routines are going to be done with compound movements.

1 (2h 5m 57s):
Generally

0 (2h 5m 58s):
The sooner or later one runs out of movements if the goal is to hit major all the major muscle groups. Yeah. However, let me give an example and ask if it's okay to, for instance, do the three by five routine where one of the exercises for back is say a bent over row. You do that on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Okay. You know, I can imagine one could do that and still recover and improve over time, but five days a week bend over rose five days a week. Is that okay? I mean can one still progress and there I could imagine it's a strong answer of depends because some people recover more slowly than others.

0 (2h 6m 40s):
I'm very comfortable doing hitting muscle groups once directly per week and once indirectly that's worked for me far better than two or three times per week. You know, I get, you know, looks of sympathy when, when I say this, but it's actually, it is just how my physiology works kind of. Yeah. Well and maybe I'm not optimizing a number of different features, but the point being that some people really do seem to be able to train a muscle every day and still make progress. Other people seem to have trouble when they train a muscle every day. So how does one establish exercise selection? Yeah. When the goal is to make progress, and this brings up something very important and we're gonna have an whole episode about this, but local versus systemic recovery.

0 (2h 7m 22s):
Yep. That, you know, is the whole nervous system becoming fatigued and is the muscle group and the related musculoskeletal systems becoming fatigued? Yeah.

1 (2h 7m 32s):
Well we're gonna go back to thinking about when, when you make these comments about it takes you three to five days and you've got better results in there, the assumption that you're probably running under is your training style is more reflecting that recovery time than it is your physiology. Hmm. It's not you, it's how you're training. So if you look at, again, all the Olympic weightlifters that are competing, they're gonna be squatting or some variation of squatting every day that that's gonna happen. Like a lot of the times they're training multiple times a day and they will be doing some basically barbell full squat multiple times a day every day, six days a week. You know, something like that.

1 (2h 8m 13s):
They're the best in the world at getting powerful. They're tremendously good at getting strong. You can do it right. It comes down to what does your volume look like? What type of movements are you doing? What rep range, what overall volume are you hitting and how are you doing it? If you look at athletes, they train their legs every day when they're running around, they're doing speed and agility training every single day. They don't need, you know, three days to recover. Can you imagine a basketball player trying to ask for like three days to recover between practice?

0 (2h 8m 44s):
Right. Well to be fair, as you, as you chuckle at me, I'm doing other things on the intervening days. Yeah. So I'll train a a muscle group like legs and then I'll give it four days before I do an indirect Yeah. What I call an indirect exercise for legs, which for me would be sprinting. Yep. Then it get two days and then I'm training them again. Yeah.

1 (2h 9m 3s):
But nonetheless an athlete has to do that every day. Right? Right. So the absolute the answer is you absolutely can train any of these muscles every single day. It really comes down to volume, right. And it comes down to movement type and how are you getting, so with, in the case of of weightlifters and and athletes, what we tend to see happen is there's not a, there's two things. There is a long period of conditioning and I don't mean endurance. What I mean is, is tissue tolerance and conditioning. So they're not going to start off their career at that pace. Right. Their, their career might start off, start off at five days a week, but maybe every other of those days is a PVC pipe only. And you're just training the movement patterns, you're working on technique, et cetera.

1 (2h 9m 44s):
And then eventually, maybe after six months or a year those PVC pipe days turn into Barb only days. And so now you went from, you know, a pound to 45 pounds and then eventually as your years go on that, that ratches up. So it depends on the style in general, speed and power stuff is so light it almost require, because it's non fatiguing, it requires almost no no recovery. So if you were truly doing say like, you know, you, when you say it's funny cuz when you say I do legs on Mondays, you don't even realize it, but an athlete does legs every day. Right. But you're saying legs and what you're really saying is, I do hypertrophy legs Mondays

0 (2h 10m 21s):
Pretty much that I don't wanna get into what I do specifically because it's less important than what other people choose to implement. But the repetition ranges anywhere from four to 12. Correct. So you're, so I'm covering

1 (2h 10m 32s):
Up pretty, you're smack dead in the peak soreness, longest recovery

0 (2h 10m 37s):
Range. Volume is relatively low. Intensity is very, very high. Yes. Workouts are very, very

1 (2h 10m 40s):
Short. So if you were to switch that and you were to stay under four repetitions, higher quality, higher rest in between them, I would be willing to bet a, a large amount of money that you'd be fined the next day, certainly 48 hours. And if you were to actually go way lower and keep, you know, three to five and keep it very, very light and train for speed, you would have absolutely no issue the next day. So it really comes down to a function of, of training. You're right in that hypertrophy zone, which is something that you probably need 48 hours at minimum to recover from. Because what you won't see are bodybuilders training the same muscle group on multiple days. Like very often at most it would be indirect, but generally they're not going to do that every single day for the same reason.

1 (2h 11m 22s):
So you're training in that style, that's what it's gonna take to recover. If you trained in a different style, then it wouldn't take that long to recover.

0 (2h 11m 29s):
So for the person starting out, would you recommend they pick three to five exercises and stick with those so that they can get their skill and movement and positioning and breathing all that really dialed in and then start to experiment by varying one or two of those exercises over time?

1 (2h 11m 46s):
That's great. If you look at the, the conjugate model, so these are the, the strongest power lifters as a collective group that ever existed. What they're very good at is they keep almost the exact same weekly structure, but they make a very small change in exercise variations. So for example, say say Wednesday as bench day, right? They're going to always bench on Wednesdays, but maybe this week they're gonna do close grip bench and then maybe next week it's gonna be maybe a, a, a special type of barbell and then maybe the week after that it's, you know, maybe they'll change the range of motion a little bit. So it's actually the exact same exercise where they're making a very small variation and that change alone allows them to do enough specificity but also gives them enough variation to where it's not the exact same stimuli in the exact same spot over and over and over.

1 (2h 12m 30s):
And that's what allows that group plus lots of other assistance. But it's what allows that group to train very, very, very heavy, very consistently and not have to worry about too much planning for periodization and, and other stuff like that. They get their back off by making small variations in exercise. I will say a major mistake folks do make is they change their exercises entirely. Way too often. If I were to have to pick one or the other, I would say don't change anything on your exercises for six weeks. Probably realistic, maybe even 10 to 12 weeks. And then you can make some changes. You should not be changing every single week. The general pub, you're just, you're not gonna see progress. It's gonna be very difficult to do that.

1 (2h 13m 11s):
So it's going to take you three weeks generally to figure out the groove of the exercise to figure out how well you can load it, what's too much to where you woke up. Unbelievably sored, that was a train wreck, how much do I load it at? How, what position, how long is this gonna take? It's gonna take you three or so weeks and then you can really start pushing there. So changing it before that or in that timeframe is, is you're not gonna be able to progressively overload cause you're just not gonna know exactly where you're at on all the exercises. So it's very important to create standardization within them and then see some progress in a movement or a muscle group, whatever you're going for and then make some changes.

0 (2h 13m 46s):
So before we dive into our discussion about hypertrophy, can we just get a brief recap of the general parameters for an excellent power and strength training program?

1 (2h 13m 57s):
Okay. Let me hit you with these rapid fire and then you can maybe come ask questions along that. Remember those modifiable variables? Okay, so let's go through them in order and then what they mean specifically for power versus strength. So modifiable variable number one is called choice. So which exercises do I select for strength in Gen O for power or speed or strength, we wanna select compound movements. You don't often see people doing maximum strength work for like a tricep kickback, right? It's typically multiple joint movements and typically complex movements. In selecting these compound movements, we generally wanna actually think about exercise selection of movements rather than muscle groups.

1 (2h 14m 38s):
So this is an important distinction because we'll see this is a different answer when we get hypertrophy. What I mean by that is when we think about, again, strength training, we tend to think about body building concepts. We go to the gym and we do things like, I gotta make sure I get my chest today and I gotta make sure I get my hamstrings. And now you're selecting exercises based on a muscle you wanna work for strength, development and power. We wanna think about movements rather than individual muscle groups. So there should be like things like I need to train explosive hip extension, which is like a vertical jump or something like that. I, I want to train pushing or pulling movements or I want attain ro I wanna train rotation, which is a whole area we haven't gotten into, which is very important for overall health and wellness longevity.

1 (2h 15m 20s):
So we wanna select big movements by the muscle, the movement patterns that we wanna introduce and we just wanna select a reasonable balance between these, I don't care what the exact ratio is, you just don't want to go an entire six months without doing anything in this rotational area or an entire, you know, eight to 10 weeks without doing something that's a lower body hinge. Right? So any number of examples there. So just think about the rough movement patterns, upper and lowered, push and pull and then some sort of rotation that puts you in a pretty good spot. If you're using three by five method and you're going to pick as little as three exercises, just pick one from each one of those group, pick a rotation, pick a a push and pick a pull.

0 (2h 16m 5s):
I can easily think of a push in a pull. So for example, bench press or shoulder press. Sure. Row or chin for pull and then squat or deadlift for hinge. Yep. What would be a a good example of a quality rotational movement?

1 (2h 16m 20s):
Yep. So anytime you can use a cable machine like at the gym and you can do, it's kind of hard to describe this exercise, but basically you're gonna stand facing the cable and you're going to pull it towards yourself and then rotate like you're pivoting. Like you're either swinging a golf club or hitting a baseball bat. So you're facing one direction, I'm facing you right now. I'm pulling the cable towards myself and then I'm gonna spin, do a 180 degree pivot and face exactly away from you when I finish and then return it back the same spot. So that's a rotation. Great.

0 (2h 16m 50s):
We will provide a link to an example of that. Great. That you consider a quality

1 (2h 16m 54s):
Example and medicine ball throw. Any number of things like this are a great rotational exercise. All right. So we select our exercises based on that. We generally then in case because of that as a case, we don't worry about things like ecentric versus concentric because you're deadly doing a whole body athletic movement. Right? Which the eccentric concentric portion is going to be folded into that and you really can't separate them out. Alright, so that's exercise choice. Our first variable, the next one is exercise order. So because the everything driving power and strength is quality based, you wanna do these at the beginning of your workout, you would not want to do anything fatiguing before this.

1 (2h 17m 35s):
So no cardiovascular training, no other repetition to fail your stuff. If you do those before and now you're slower, all you've done is practice getting slower and, and so these need to be done when you're fresh. You also need to do them when you're very fresh because they're the most neurologically demanding, they're complicated, they tend to have multiple steps and they're often in multiple planes. And coordination is a difficult thing and if you're trying to do all that at maximum speed, your nervous system needs to be tremendously fresh. And so any amount of fatigue here is only gonna compromise results. To kind of recap that, one of the major mistakes when training force strength and especially power is people worry way too much about fatigue. Those things should not be part of the equation. And in fact, if they are, that's a very good sign.

1 (2h 18m 17s):
You're not doing this correctly. Right? These are non fatiguing movements, especially speed and power. So choice order is next. The next one after that is volume. And we sort of hit volume and intensity, which is the other one we, we talked about that the volume is basically identical between power and strength. The, the general number we're gonna look at here is something like three to 20 sets

0 (2h 18m 43s):
Total per workout. Per

1 (2h 18m 45s):
Workout. But that would be like 20 would be a little bit of a special case. Three to five is what I told you earlier, right? I'm just saying like sometimes you can actually go quite higher in these cases, but that's the general range.

0 (2h 18m 58s):
And once somebody finishes the three by five workout for power or strength, if they decide they want to throw in some cal phrases and curls and totally a forearm work or a little bit of a joggy on the treadmill or something, that's okay.

1 (2h 19m 13s):
Absolutely. There there is, you have very little risk of interference for things like speed and power, strength, you have a little bit of a risk only because now you're introducing fatigue, which if you're really pushing strength, that might compromise your recovery.

0 (2h 19m 29s):
I could imagine doing the three to five routine for strength or for power and then somebody finishing up with 10 or 15 minutes of hypertrophy arm work and then being very seriously compromised if they try and come in the next day or even the next day. Correct. And do those big compound movements for speed and power. That's right. Not just because they're sore but the muscles may actually still be damaged. And I know later we're gonna talk about the somewhat tenuous relationship between soreness and recovery. Yeah.

1 (2h 19m 58s):
Yep. So that, that's a, that's a really nice heuristic to, to pay attention to is you can but just be careful. Energy starts to matter at that point. If you're really truly trying to maximize strength, you would do nothing at all outside of that training. If you're just like, I kind of wanna get stronger and some other things and you're willing to lose strength, you know 5% of your strength gains, then you're, you're totally fine. The same can be said by the way, for super setting. So super setting is an idea that says like, wait a minute, you're telling me dude, I gotta take five minutes in between each set.

0 (2h 20m 32s):
Well that's not so much a problem nowadays with phone with my god smartphones because people are filling their interset intervals with social media and texting. Correct.

1 (2h 20m 42s):
You, you don't really have to go that long. In fact, there was actually a study that came out in the last month that showed, you know, like really two minutes is probably sufficient for most people. Having said that, if you really are trying to push maximum strength adaptation, it's like three to five is very, very reasonable. You're, those training sessions are long cuz you have to take, you're spending more time not doing anything then you aren't doing something but you're trying to maximize quality. So that's just sort of like part and parcel. If you're not super worried about it, you can actually do super setting, which is, let's imagine again you're gonna do some, some lunges and while your legs are resting during their three to five minutes you can go over and do an upper body row or pull and when your upper body's resting, you're going back to legs.

1 (2h 21m 24s):
So that really cuts your time in half. Is it ideal? No, we actually ran a study maybe 10 years ago in our lab and we looked at that specifically and we did see a reduction in strength performance in the super setting group relative to the group who did not super set the question. Then it becomes like, is it enough for you to care? So if you were to, if I were to say, hey I can cut an hour off of your workout time but you will lose 5% of your strength gain, almost everyone would take that exchange with the exception of people who are getting close to competition or really trying to set a new lifetime PR or something. Then you might say, no, I don't want any interference there. That last little margin is what I care about. Give me the extra rest. Great. So it's not a does it work?

1 (2h 22m 4s):
Does it not work? It's always a a what are you willing to give up versus get the

0 (2h 22m 9s):
Practicalities of super setting or staggering? Push, pull, push pull in my mind are real because yeah, you have to take over large segments of the gym, which oftentimes leads to a situation where your rest times are too long or highly variable because people are working in,

1 (2h 22m 24s):
Or you can't finish your set cuz now someone jumped into the machine. Right? You totally screwed.

0 (2h 22m 28s):
Yeah, right. You lose three to five of your friends because it's obnoxious when you're taking over all the equipment. But in all seriousness, I think it's wonderful if you have the space and the, and the format to do it. But at least in my experience and observation, these people know who they are. It's not practical to do on a regular basis if you train in an open commercial gym.

1 (2h 22m 49s):
Yeah. Tough to pull off. So we've covered toys, order volume and intensity to a sufficient level. The last one is frequency and we've already sort of indirectly talked about that, where frequency can be as high as you'd like in this area. It really depends on your recovery. If you're really truly pushing maximum strength, you probably do need a few days to recover, although that's dependent upon you. But speed and power can be done multiple times a day, almost every day basically. The one exception would be maximum sprinting speed. You need to be careful there for things like hamstring and injury, especially if you're pretty fast. So you wanna be a little bit cautious of that. But if you're doing easier movements like medicine ball throws or kettlebell swings or something, you could do those quite often as long as the volume is is staying pretty low.

1 (2h 23m 35s):
Last little piece here is progression. How do I progress over time? So I mentioned this earlier, but just wanted to fill this gap right back in before we head over to hyper three, which is three to 5% increase per week of intensity in general. And you can do upwards of about 5% increase in volume per week over time. And I generally recommend running that for at longest eight weeks, but probably most realistically you want to go about five weeks or so and then have some sort of a deload or back off week. If you do that, you're, you're generally gonna be in a pretty good spot. So those are like the core concepts now. There's a whole bunch of fun methods you can play with within all these categories and, and I I would like to actually cover just a couple of them if we've got a little more space for that.

0 (2h 24m 21s):
Sure. I'd love to hear about those. I'd like to also just cue up one, which is while I joked about people texting and doing social media between sets and I, that's not a joke. I, well I confess I stopped bringing my phone into the gym Yeah. Because of the urge to, you know, take my mind off of the workout and I just started enjoying my workouts a lot more. Yeah. And the workouts go far better that way and they're, they're just much more efficient. It, for me, I, I realize that some people, their careers take place in the gym and so for the, I don't look down upon anyone using their phone at the gym, but for that really tends to help me. But I do wonder whether or not there's an optimal behavior or mindset in between sets.

0 (2h 25m 5s):
I've heard before that pacing around can actually help diffuse some of the lactate and other metabolic byproducts of, of work and exertion. Yeah. That can lead to better performance. I've also heard that, you know, shaking the muscles out, I mean there's all sorts of gym lore about this, but maybe there's also some decent science. I'm just curious if you have any specific recommendations that people could play with or try.

1 (2h 25m 31s):
Yep. So for, for speed and power, you want to walk this balance of stiff but fresh. And so if you were to literally finish a repetition, sit on a bench for five minutes, you would stand up after that fairly stiff and you wouldn't feel sort of smooth. This is all science, this is all non-science, this is all practical application.

0 (2h 25m 52s):
Right. A data.

1 (2h 25m 53s):
A data. There you go. Strength is a little bit different, but it's the same concept. You're walking that line. In general, a lot of the times if you see power lifters and weightlifters in between sets, they're going to sit down and not move for hypertrophy can be a little bit different because you're getting towards fatigue. And so the factors you mentioned like clearing lactate, well first of all, lactate is not actually causing fatigue. That's, that's a giant myth that will,

0 (2h 26m 14s):
Which is why I teed it up. No, I'm just kidding.

1 (2h 26m 18s):
But in the case of again, speeding power, you're not going to fatigue. So fatigue management's not a really an issue. You wanna make sure that you're getting complete neurological recovery, which is a little bit slower than muscle. Energetically you're not out of any gas whatsoever. Right. You are not a lack of fuel, you know, doing three repetitions of a vertical jump. Yep.

0 (2h 26m 35s):
No close. Plenty of glycogen.

1 (2h 26m 37s):
Totally.

0 (2h 26m 37s):
What about stretching between sets?

1 (2h 26m 40s):
Yeah, you probably don't wanna do that either. There are very clear examples of pre-exercise stretching, static, stretching being quite detrimental for maximum power production. The same thing for speed and strength. And that's been shown actually a number of times in a number of laboratories, which is like a, a classic hallmark any scientist looks for of like really jumping on board with an idea. If it's shown not only multiple times but in multiple laboratories for multiple scientists and they're all seeing the same thing, you start to get a lot of confidence that that's a real finding and that's been shown. We've done that in our center for sport performance. Not myself, but one of my colleagues has done a lot of stretching research and he's seen that a lot on everything from vertical jump to iso kinetic dynamometers and, and force velocity curves.

1 (2h 27m 21s):
And there's, we, we've seen this in sprinting, we've seen this in speed, we've seen this in loaded stuff. So you, you don't wanna spend a ton of time stretching, statically stretching a muscle proprietary. If you do that and you have to do that, say, say for example, you finish that, you're just like feeling really tight. Yeah, go ahead. Like you need to get in the right position, especially for most people. Where are you willing to sacrifice 10% of power to make sure you don't get hurt? Yes. That answer is almost always yes outside of some very specific athlete scenarios. So if you're not in the right position, I actually remember having this conversation with Kelly. Kelly started a long time ago. It was just like, yeah, fine, I'll lose 5%. That means I'm not gonna get in a bad position and hurt my back. And I totally, totally agree.

1 (2h 28m 1s):
So if you gotta open up a hip or an ankle or something to get there, get in the right position. Number one, we'll live with the 5% reduction in power and if you do just reactivate, so before you go do your working set, go do something fast again, a vertical jump, a short sprint, an acceleration and sort of get that system cleared back up. If you didn't stretch it for long enough and you didn't hold it for long enough, you should be able to be just fine. So when it comes to hypertrophy, yeah you can really stretch all you want. Cause we're not, it's not driven by intensity or outcome, it's being driven by an insult into the tissue. And so if you're pret fatigued for hypertrophy, it doesn't matter if you're pre-stretch, that doesn't matter. We're not going for quality of outcome, we're going for quality of internal signal, which is not gonna be changed by your force output.

1 (2h 28m 46s):
So it doesn't really matter.

0 (2h 28m 49s):
You mentioned a few other things that one might consider. Yeah. In, in light of the lists that you've provided of choice, order, volume, frequency, and progression. Right.

1 (2h 28m 59s):
So starting off with power, just wanted to hand the, the listeners here with a whole bunch of different methods to go play with, right? So as long as you hit those concepts, the repetition range for power 30 to 70% of your one repetition max, depending on the exercise and your training status, you, you're gonna get the power. As long as you're attempting to go fast, this is gonna be great. A lot of things you can try apply. Metrics are a great example of things that are effective for, for power development. We, we've mentioned medicine ball throws short sprints. You can even do sprints on like an air bike, which is a great super safe activity. You can do them from like a rolling start where you kind of like get going a little bit and then you explode for five seconds and see how fast you can get or a dead start.

1 (2h 29m 44s):
Like both of those are very, very acceptable weightlifting movements. So snatches and cleaning jerks are tremendously effective. In fact, they are a pound for pound by far the most effective exercise choice for power development. Like without question. So those are good ones. Clapping pushups, speed squats, these are all whole host of different things that you can do for speed and power development, depending on your kettlebell swings. Another great one. All these can be done depending on your preference, exercise availability, what's at your gym or not gym, any of those things.

0 (2h 30m 17s):
If somebody is more focused on strength as opposed to power, what are the additional variables they should consider, again, within the context of this overarching theme of choice, order, volume, frequency, and

1 (2h 30m 31s):
Progression. Absolutely. It's almost identical with a couple of small exceptions. Number one, you probably can't do as many working sets per week for strength because now you're introducing a heavier load and that's gonna represent some sort of fatigue load on the tissue, all those things. So you could probably get away with doing 20 sets of two of a vertical jump four or five times a week. You, you probably couldn't do that at a 90% on squat. Right? So the total amount of sets and the total amount of weekly load you can get to just needs to be lower. And then the intensity, right, so we talked about that needs to be generally higher than 70% with, you know, some portion of that being working sets and some portion of that really truly being at 90% plus everything else is, is pretty identical.

1 (2h 31m 15s):
You still wanna emphasize maximum speed despite the fact you may actually not be moving faster because you've introduced load. You still need to be attempting that, but you're gonna be picking complex exercises. You're generally going to be hedging more towards barbells and machines. So this is a case where body weight training can be effective, again, particularly for the upper body, but at some point you're really gonna have to move past that because there's just a certain amount of load you can't put on the lower body with just your body weight. You get limited by how much you weigh or, I mean, there's a couple of things you can do, but you're gonna run out past that pretty quickly. And so in str when it comes to strength, they tend to be less athletic movements because you know, we have to have a barbell on us.

1 (2h 31m 59s):
We have to have a, we have to be on a machine or something like that. And so that's a subtle difference in exercise choice. We need to also be careful about the eccentric portion and things like that where we don't have as much risk in, in like a speed or power one. So some of the different things you can play with there, we've talked about doing things like pushes and poles. I also love caries. So a farmer's carry, pushing a sled, dragging a sled, all kinds of things. A yolk walk, all kinds of of carry modalities that are very, very effective For strength, there's eccentric overload training, which we really haven't gotten into, but it's a really advanced technique where you can actually load at greater than 100% of your one repetition max, but you're only going to do the eccentric portion of it.

1 (2h 32m 43s):
So physiologically, you are much stronger eccentrically than you are concentric for a variety of, of of muscle tissue reasons actually. And so imagine if you can do a bench press at 200 pounds and what you might actually do is load it to 220 and you would have a spotter and, and maybe even use it in a rack and you would lower it down under controlled all the way to the bottom and then stop, your friends would lift it back up the top and then you would just practice that ecentric portion. You would actually be able to lower, say 220 pounds effectively, despite the fact that you wouldn't have been able to lift it back up. You don't need to start there. But that is a very effective method for incre. In fact, one of my, one of my doctoral students right now is, is doing a project on this at usc and he, like, he's focusing directly on this and it's, it's, it's quite clear that's oftentimes more effective at strength development than anything else cuz you can actually just like in the speed example where you wanna actually practice moving faster.

1 (2h 33m 36s):
So instead of practicing at a hundred percent of your one art max strength, you actually practice that higher than that to get better at it. So that's, that's another much more advanced tool. Please don't let me get sued by saying all that. Like, folks, be careful. Make sure you're doing the proper exercise and you're positioning and, and like caveat, caveat, caveat. Okay. But outside of that it can be, it's, it's totally fine and safe.

0 (2h 33m 59s):
Yeah with it when people get injured they can't train, can't train you, don't progress. Totally. You, you lose progress. So certainly that, that's worth highlighting.

1 (2h 34m 7s):
So two more little more advanced techniques that, that I wanna throw out there. And one of them is called cluster sets. So cluster sets are, there's a bunch of ways to do it, but imagine taking a mini break in between every single repetition. So say you're gonna do five repetitions in a row. What you're actually gonna do is do one repetition, set it down, pause for five to 10 seconds and then do the next one. Pause, do the next one, pause, pause, pause, pause, pause. So you can imagine doing like a squat and you're gonna go down, explode up, you're gonna stand there, you're gonna rack it out, you're gonna kinda like shake back out, catch your breath, walk back in, do another one, rack it out and you're gonna repeat that until you've executed your three or four or five repetitions.

1 (2h 34m 50s):
And then you take your three to five minute break before your next set. That is an incredibly effective way for both strength, power and actually even hypertrophy because you can keep the quality, the force output, the power output very, very, very high. Cuz you're getting these little mini breaks and you're not getting fatigue setting in by the time you hit your say third or fourth or fifth repetition in that set after repetition one. And you start to see very small subtle reductions in power output because you start to see a little bit of fatigue. You, you take those five to 10 seconds off, even up to 20 seconds you can actually do it. You don't see any drop in in force output over the course of the five. And so what you really have done is you've gotten five in this example first repetitions, which is the way that we will kind of say it, right?

1 (2h 35m 36s):
So all five of those had the same quality as rep number one, which is again, as we're talking that's the driver and strength. And so that's the one we wanna preserve. So it takes a little bit longer for some exercises it's not very good. It's great for like a deadlift cuz you set it back down, shake it back out, re grip, hard to do with the bench, you gotta re rack it back in, then RevRack it back out. That's, it's like kind of a pain in the ass. So there's some exercises it doesn't work well with and, and some that it does, but cluster sets and a lot of research on those. Very effective.

0 (2h 36m 9s):
Would you recommend if somebody's doing cluster sets that they do them for every session within that week? Or just this is an occasional thing

1 (2h 36m 15s):
You could do it, this could be your training strategy. Yeah, absolutely. So you, you can really take it that serious. In fact, like if you look at again the weightlifters, they will do cluster sets by default, not even trying. So they'll say they'll do like a clean and then they'll drop the weight back out. They're supposed to be doing say a set of three, but almost always they're gonna like shake it out, re gripp and then pull it again. And sometimes they're set of three takes like a minute and then it's like you hears funny cuz it's like a, like a, a set of a triple pr. You're like no you did three singles. Like what's the difference between doing three singles and a set of three when you took a minute between each rep? I love that community. So yeah, I mean it could be your strategy. Like it could be like, hey for this five week block, this is all my training, especially for your compound movements.

1 (2h 36m 56s):
If you're gonna go to start doing some of the smaller movements, maybe you give up on that. It could also just be something you do for your one primary exercise for the day. So do that thing that is the most important first and just do it for that one. And then the rest of 'em you can kind of ditch it if you need to save a little bit of that time. It could also be something you do by feel. So you know you're, you're two reps in and you go guy like I'm not feeling like poppy here. Like re rack it, catch my breath for a quick second and do it. So it doesn't have to be ultra planned. I guess what I'm doing is, is I'm giving you an excuse to make sure you're super fresh for every rep. It matters. The last one I wanna talk about here is what's called dynamic variable resistance. So dynamic variable resistance is fixing the problem we have with what's called the human strength curve.

1 (2h 37m 43s):
So theory of constraints, again, you are only as strong as you are in your weakest point of the movement. So depending on the, the movement you do, this happens at a different range of motion. Well the deadlift diseases example, it's also because we've done like research in my lab using this stuff on the deadlift so I can speak to it very directly. When you go to pull it off the ground, some people are gonna fail right at the bottom, meaning they won't get the weight off the ground at all. Some people will fail just below the knees. That's like kinda like the hardest transition period. And then some people will fail right at the top just before they can lock out. Okay, great. So what that means is at some point of that lift, you are going to only be limited by your strength in the weakest area.

1 (2h 38m 27s):
Alright? So if you have a constant load on the bar in those other two parts of the range of motion or you are not the weakest, they're never truly being tested for their maximum strength cuz they're always being limited by the previous one. This is the same argument that we would get into if people ask about should I what what you think about using straps, right? You know, strapping your hand to a bar for deadlift, things like that. There's pros and cons here. There are times when you wanna use a strap and there are times when it's a bad idea. So what dynamic variable resistance is, is either using things like a heavy band or a or chains on the bar, if you've ever seen people do that. So in my lab we actually have a force plate on the ground and then we have built-in basically hooks in the front and the back.

1 (2h 39m 9s):
So we can actually set a, a barbell on top of the force plate where you stand on it and then run bands from the back to the front running over top of the weights. And so when you stand up as you're going up vertically, the bands are getting tighter and tighter and pulling the weight towards the ground. So the weight is getting heavier and heavier as you stand up. So as you start to gain mechanical advantage in your positioning, you start to increase load cuz the bands are getting tighter and tighter and tighter. So this allows you to train that full part of the strength curve and to challenge your stronger areas with heavier weight and your weaker areas with lower weight. You can do the same thing with a bench press, you can do it with a, a squat and any other exercise variation and dynamic variable resistance is incredibly effective for a number of things.

1 (2h 39m 56s):
You are going to give up a little bit because the total load you can put on the barbell is lower because you're gonna be adding, you know, in large cases several hundred pounds of band tension. And so it pros and cons, it's always a game, it changes the curve but it's, it's a, it's a very good technique that that people, it's fairly easy to implement, it's fun and effective. If you try this on on a bench or a squat, you're gonna, the first time you give it a go you're like, oh my god. Because the bands are pulling you all over the place. So you have to get very stable very quick. Been shown a number of times, a handful of studies outta many laboratories to be a very effective training technique. A little bit more advanced, but I wanted to throw that in there for the folks that are maybe just tired of sort of doing the same barbells and dumbs and machines and, and you wanna try something different.

1 (2h 40m 42s):
A very effective technique

0 (2h 40m 43s):
Sounds like fun.

1 (2h 40m 44s):
Yeah, it's

0 (2h 40m 45s):
Great. With your permission, I'm gonna read back my summary list of training for power and training for strength according to your description. And you can tell me where I'm right and where I'm wrong. Yep. I'm going to pick three to five exercises and these should be compound exercises. So multi-joint movements, I'm going to perform those exercises for three to five repetitions each. I'm going to do three to five movements total per workout and I'm going to rest three to five minutes between sets. Okay? If I'm training for power, the weight loads on the work sets, so not the warmup sets but the work sets are going to fall somewhere in the range of 30 to 70% of my one repetition maximum.

1 (2h 41m 30s):
Yep. And the larger the movement, the higher that number goes. So on a squat you're okay getting 50 or 60% on a bench, you would not wanna go that high, you would wanna stay closer to that 30 to 40% range. So the way that you scale that up and down is dependent upon the difficulty of the movement.

0 (2h 41m 48s):
Great. If training for strength, I'm going to have my work sets be 70% or more of my one repetition maximum.

1 (2h 41m 58s):
Yep. And the only thing to add there is in the case of actually all of them, it's okay to go less than three reps per set. So a single or a double, you know, one or two reps percent is also fantastic. So we use three to five is the concept, but less is okay. Going more than that is generally not a good idea. So less is okay, more is generally not

0 (2h 42m 19s):
Okay. And then you listed off a number of really valuable, I don't even want to call them fine points, but important points to keep in mind within each and both of these programs. One that really stands out in my mind is this idea of if I perform this three by five program, but I'm also including some hypertrophy work for arms or calves or muscle groups that might not be hit as directly as one might like during the three by five component, that's okay. But do that after the three by five training and keep in mind that that additional work can potentially compromise recovery for the three by five power promoting or strength promoting program.

0 (2h 43m 3s):
The example being, for instance, if one does arm work on the first workout of the week or even the, you know, the third workout of the week or the fifth workout of the week and that arm work is higher repetition, hyper directed work, it's reasonable to assume that it might impede some of the three by five power promoting or strength promoting training in the subsequent workout. So just to be mindful of that and perhaps throttle back on the intensity or the volume or if my goal is strictly power or strictly strength, probably best to leave out other forms of training.

1 (2h 43m 38s):
Yep. Love it. One last little thing I don't think we did. Justice is intention. And the reason I wanna go back to this now is because we've talked a lot about specific loads you have to hit and that's generally the case. But if intention is there, you can fudge those numbers in terms of how much load goes on the bar. In fact, you can get as low as no load on the bar. A great example here is like a plank exercise. So you can do a plank in which you get in a position and you simply contract the least amount necessary to hold the position. Also you could contract as hard as possible pulling your scapula down and back, squeezing your core, squeezing your quads, squeezing your glutes.

1 (2h 44m 21s):
That is actually going to still help strength production because you're attempting to contract very, very hard even though quote unquote the load is the same, that thing extends to weight on the bar. So you could theoretically see large improvements in strength at 50% of your one at max if you're contracting as hard as possible. And so there's a lots, lots and lots of different ways you can train for strength that are outside of this weightlifting weight training spectrum. And, and you know, people, if you hear things like this and you're like, wow, well I know I read this book or I saw this other coach who you know like I got so much stronger that way. Well if intention is there, those are absolutely possible.

1 (2h 45m 4s):
This could be anything from body weight style of training, it could be very low load implement stuff. So a kettle bell, a light kettle bell or a ball, it could be single leg training. It's like all kinds of different methods. They will only work for strength though when you're past your first, you know, handful of months of training if intention is there. And if it is, then these specific numbers and protocols don't matter as much. So don't get too caught up in them if you're not worrying about exercise quality. And this is very, very important because you mentioned earlier about how you stopped taking your phone into the gym with you. One of our former students, Ramsey Ninja, is the head strength conditioning coach at the University of Kansas.

1 (2h 45m 46s):
And he made, he made a great post a couple of days ago where he, he gave sort of a tip of how do I improve training quality? And one of his tips is sets your playlist before you go to the gym. And the reason is people send, spend so much time in between sets just finding the next song that they like. It makes their workout so long and so unproductive. So that is one strategy or do what you do, which is ditch the music entirely when you don't have music or a phone to look at. You only have one job, you only have one thing to pay attention to. And what you'll find is the quality of the training will go up exponentially. You'll feel kind of quote unquote bored. But that's just means you'll go back to training and you'll get a lot more done cuz you have one thing to focus on.

1 (2h 46m 27s):
So you can get a lot more done when you avoid those distractions. And when you're doing strength and especially power work, since it's not fatiguing, strength will be a little bit, but power won't be. People tend to get very bored. They're used to either feeling a, a pump or a burn or a sweat or, and that's their like perception of my quality of workout. These exercises will not hit that for you. So there has to be another metric you're looking at, which is I'm going to try to move as well as I can, as hard as I can that's going to produce your results. If you can't do that, then you might as well just not do these workouts, go do something else. You're just gonna be wasting time, you're gonna be burning a very low amount of calories, you'll have wasted an hour and you're gonna go right back to the place you were.

1 (2h 47m 10s):
So be very intentional. There are actually some, some studies showing that music can enhance performance. We've done some of these in our lab. So what's that mean? It's not about the music per se, it's about the focus and intent and do whatever it takes to be very focused and intent and you can actually get in and out very quickly and get a lot of work done and see a lot of results.

0 (2h 47m 28s):
Love it. Okay, let's talk about hypertrophy. The topic that occupies the minds of so many youth, young men but also a lot of women. I think one of the really interesting progressions that's taken place in the last decade or so is that far more men and women are using resistance training in order to evoke hypertrophy growth of muscles for aesthetic reasons and for all sorts of reasons. What are the ways that people can induce hypertrophy?

1 (2h 48m 1s):
So n not to correct you or insult you, but probably a, a better way to think about that question is really what stimuli do I need to give the muscle to induce hypertrophy? Now there are hormonal factors that are important, there are nutritional factors, but just to stick with the context of training, this is really gonna frame a lot of our answers. And as you'll see, it's one of the reasons why I call hypertrophy training kind of idiot-proof in terms of programming. Now the work is hard, difficult and all that, but the precision needed is a lot less than what we saw in power and strength. And so if you note there, like it's very important that you do it in this style with this intent and with with these within these parameters.

1 (2h 48m 44s):
And if you're outside these parameters, it's not gonna be a hypertrophy has a very broad range in terms of your actual applications and this is why you have, and we'll continue to see countless styles of training that all work. I mean I know you were mentored earlier in life by one of my favorite people in this entire field, Mike mentor, like just an absolute character. His style was completely different than what you would see in a, a classic textbook or, or any unnumbered of different influencers or coaches or individuals. And if you've ever sought thought to yourself like why is it all these programs work? And people love to jump to things like, well that's the steroids, like just get that outta the equation for now.

1 (2h 49m 29s):
Independent of that, that's not even part of the equation. You're still going to see results. And the question is like why? Well that's because what's driving changes in strength and power are the adaptations of specificity. What's driving changes in hypertrophy is much more well-rounded. And so you have options to get there. Remember you're training a movement and now you're training a response and a muscle that cause the growth that's very, very different. So if we look at like the classic dogma, we have to basically challenge the muscle to need to come back in this case specifically bigger and the nutrients need to be there to support that growth.

1 (2h 50m 10s):
Okay, the nutrients aside, perhaps we can come in a few more minutes and and talk about that. So all we really have to do is going back to our, our dogma of activation of something on the cell wall. We've talked about this earlier. That's gotta induce that signaling cascade. That's gotta be strong enough to cause the nucleus to react to it, to go to the ribosomes to initiate this entire cascade of protein synthesis. Okay? So that signal has to be one of a couple of things. Either has to be strong enough one time it has to be frequent enough or it has to be a combination of these things. All right? So I can get there with a lot of frequency and a moderate signal. I can get there with very low frequency and a large signal like more akin to what you did with, with Mike back in the day I'm sure

0 (2h 50m 56s):
And still train that way. Still train that way. Each muscle group mainly once a week directly and once a week indirectly.

1 (2h 51m 3s):
So all you can, all you have to do there to not fail is to make sure the training is hard enough and it's gonna work. If you choose the frequency path, then you actually have to make sure you're not training too hard to where you can actually maintain the frequency. The only wrong combination here is infrequent and low intensity and low volume. That's it. As long as one of those three variables is high, you're gonna get there because the mechanisms that are needed to activate that signaling cascade are wide ranging. And this is why when we even see things like blood flow restriction training, right? This is when you put like a cuff on your arm or your leg and you block blood flow and you use no load or as low as say 30% of your maximum and you take it to fatigue failure, that actually is an equally effective way of inducing hypertrophy despite the fact that you know, you're using 3, 5, 10, maybe most 20 to 30% of your one at max.

1 (2h 51m 55s):
Why? Because you went through, through the route of, of metabolic disturbance. Okay? Other ways say a higher load, maybe as heavy as you can for say eight repetitions is gonna get through through what's called mechanical tension. And so there's, there's these different paths that we can get to the same spot. Now eventually these things have a saturation point, so you don't need all three of these mechanisms. The third one of course being muscle damage or breakdown. And I, and I know we wanna chat a little bit about that, but none of these three are absolutely required. You can have multiple of them in a session. You don't have to have breakdown at all. That is a complete, well really it's a flat out lie that you have to break a muscle down to cause it to grow that that's just not needed at all.

1 (2h 52m 37s):
You have to have one of these three things though. And so again, this allows you a lot of flexibility, which is why crafting your program, which is best for you is actually fairly simple when it comes to approach. You just have to make sure you do the work and you wanna make sure you have a few standards in place with the exercise choice and some other things that will, we'll hit just a second. But that's really the fundamental way of getting to it. Making sure either that signal is loud enough or frequent enough to give the nuclei a convincing enough reason to spend the resources. Cuz you have to remember two things in order to grow noom skeletal muscle, you need amino acids, which are your supply.

1 (2h 53m 17s):
And then you need primarily carbohydrates as the energy source to power that synthesis process. You remember basic chemistry that says if you're gonna take two atoms and you're gonna pull them apart or put them together, right? That's going to take energy typically and and most of actually metabolism, when you split a bond, you're gonna get, it's called exonic, you're gonna get energy from that. But when you put them together, that's going to take energy. This is why we call that protein synthesis, right? So you have to convince your nucleus that one, invest those resources in energy, primarily carbohydrate. But number two and more importantly, invest that supply. There's a ton of possible ways to get energy, but there's a very low amount of amino acids available and you need them for many more things than just taking your biceps from 17 inches to 18 inches, right?

1 (2h 54m 5s):
It's not going to do that if you're in a position to where again, you can't sustain immune function if, if red blood cell turnover needs to be higher or any of the other main like tons of things that you need proteins for. So you have to be able to say like, are you sure you really wanna spend these resources and build it into muscles? Because once we do that, it's very difficult to go backwards, break them back down and bring the amino acids back into that, to that availability pool. So we can use them for either another function entirely or even another muscle group that's called protein redistribution. By the way, when you say maybe you, you don't do a lot of upper body work in your training and you're not eating enough protein or a minimal amount and you're doing a lot of lifting in your legs, you'll, you'll notice your legs will get larger.

1 (2h 54m 50s):
But that's actually a lot of times you're pulling the protein from say, your upper body in this case and redistributing it back down to the quads. So that's the way you, that's what you have to get to. And in terms of application, what numbers to hit, we can go go through each one of our modifiable variables just like we did with speed and, and strength and power and walk through some of our best practices in each category.

0 (2h 55m 13s):
Yes. So I'd love to talk about those modifiable variables as they relate to choice of movements, order of movements, volume, so sets and repetitions and frequency of training. And I'm particularly interested in frequency of training because that relates to the so-called split where typically one is not training their whole body every workout, although there are I'm sure hypertrophy workouts that it our whole body workouts, but where people are dividing on their body parts on onto different days. So would love to go through this list one by one starting with exercise choice.

1 (2h 55m 54s):
Cool. Great. So in the previous section we pretty much said exclusively choose your exercises by the movement patterns and you wanna balance between pushing and pulling and rotation and things like that. In this particular case, you have the option to do either, here's my recommendation, most people default almost exclusively to choosing by body parts here, right? I'm going to do casts and shoulders today and chest and back, whatever combinations of things they want. That is clearly effective strategy. However many studies act have actually been done where you choose by movement patterns and that is actually equally effective. Now, one little caveat, I actually should have said a few minutes ago, when we talk about the research on muscle hypertrophy, it is important to distinguish the fact that the vast majority of this research is coming from a novice to moderately trained individuals.

1 (2h 56m 41s):
There's actually more and more research coming out on trained individuals, but that's still moderately strange, right? Even those ones. So what happens in those people that are actually way past that point? We, we don't know scientifically it's very difficult to do research there. So it's an important caveat. I will acknowledge when I say, hey, you don't need to do this or you have to do this. You were assuming a, a train status of, of moderate to to low may or may not be true past that we don't know scientifically. I have certain thoughts personally, but the science will only take us that far. So that being said, you can actually choose by muscle or by mo movement pattern here, whichever is, is your personal preference. And this is actually where you can act.

1 (2h 57m 21s):
Just become a good coach. Whether you're coaching somebody else through this fitness journey or it's yourself and give them a little bit of autonomy. So maybe you select the first three exercises and then let them select one every day. And so if they especially wanna make sure that one muscle group grows, let them target that muscle and maybe the rest of the day you've actually split it up as push pull or something else like that. All those strategies are effective. Personal preference as long as the total amount of volume on the working muscle is equated throughout the week, which we'll get to those numbers in a second, then you're gonna be in the exact same spot. No problem. I would actually generally encourage people to choose exercises in a variety of fashions. I actually actually think that it's important that you do some number of combination of what we call bilateral and unilateral exercises.

1 (2h 58m 9s):
So bilateral being, think about it like a squat where bi meaning two lateral, you have two feet on the ground moving, you know, in sequence here, unilateral is one. So this could be something as simple as a rear foot elevated split squat. It could be a single leg, leg press or single leg curl. It could be a pistol squat, something where the, the individual limb is moving one a time. You need to have a combination of bilateral and unilateral training that's good to do for strength as well. Probably not super important for power, but I'm also very important for making sure for ivy's sake and you're not getting any imbalances a a as you progress, especially through months and years of training.

1 (2h 58m 49s):
So make sure you're doing a little bit of a combination, whether you wanna pick specific implements, that's really a methods question and a preference question. Then it is concepts. So dumbbell great, kettlebell fine, barbell, awesome band, doesn't matter. Body weight do none of these things are as important because all you're trying to do is create a certain insult in the tissue and the implement is just whichever one you feel best doing it. And this is where actually machines come into play a lot. Machines are greatly underappreciated. There are a fantastic resource, especially somebody who's either early in their fitness journey or somebody who really is having a hard time targeting a muscle group with a bigger compound movement.

1 (2h 59m 33s):
So when you're choosing exercises for hypertrophy, you're gonna wanna start with those bigger compound movements that's going to be drive a lot of the adaptation. You can get to these single joint movements like a little bit later. But having said that, because of of the way that people move differently, their bomb or their anthropometrics and and their biomechanics and even their technique, the same exact exercise will not necessarily work the same exact muscle groups for multiple people. So if you and I both went and did a back squat, if you did it little bit more of what we call a high bar squat. So this is the bar is literally sitting up higher up on your neck, you're keeping your back more vertical.

1 (3h 0m 13s):
And because in, in order to do that, you shift your knees much further past your toes keeping of course your whole foot on the ground in good position, okay? That's going to generally put more of an emphasis on the knee joint, right? And so that's not a bad thing. You tend to see a little bit more work in the quads there, a little bit less work in the spinal rec and back because you're actually not supporting the weight horizontally, which is a diff, it's a much more difficult position. It's, it's vertically stacked. Okay? If I were to do it in the classic lubar squat, which is again lowering the bar down my further down my back towards more like my shoulder blades, I probably take a little bit of a wider stance. And when I squat, I drive my glutes back further away from the midline in as in fact, as a general rule, if you take the midline of your, your body, the thing that moves the farthest away from that midline is likely to be the thing that's activating the most.

1 (3h 1m 6s):
So in the case of the, of the front squat, you're not generally going to be using your glutes as much if you're in that or not in front squat, just that high bar squat where you're very, very vertical, your knees are gonna be moving very far over your toes, which is fantastic. Therefore it's a little bit more knee dominant as can we say it. The other version here, you can keep your shins really close to vertical, you move your butt backwards, you're gonna have to then lean forward with your torso, which means it'll be more low back, more glutes and a little bit less knee. Now that's a general statement, it's not necessarily always true, but as a guideline there, that is one exact exercise where you may be going, man, I'm trying to improve this clear weakness I have in my quads. I can't even leg extension my body weight. I have a significant problem there.

1 (3h 1m 48s):
So maybe in your particular case, if I'm hammering you or you're hammering yourself in a squat exercise and you're wondering why you're quads aren't getting any stronger or or growing in any size, it may be because of the style of the movement. So I may need to go Andrew. All right, look, squats in general if you look at the research, are an excellent exercise for quad development. But for you, they're not because of the way you stand or just because of, you know, neural activation, that doesn't matter. So I need to take you to a machine and isolate that muscle group so we can make sure we see development in that. So if you're trying to grow a specific body, part area, individual muscle, it's very important that you're actually seeing progress there. And don't worry about, well in the textbook, the bench press is supposed to be good for your peck.

1 (3h 2m 31s):
Cuz if you're not actually moving the right position or it depends on the angle in which your sternum actually sits in your body. A a a bench press may actually be doing very little for your peck and you may need to adjust to say an incline bench or a decline bench or APEC fly. So machines can be fantastic at letting you isolate without having to worry about things like stability, your low back position, getting hurt, where's your neck at. You can really concentrate on just the movement, concentrate on the muscle and let everything else kind of go away and ensure you're getting training in that specific area.

0 (3h 3m 2s):
Those are excellent recommendations. One thing I wanted to ask about is prioritizing specific body parts and therefore specific exercises. And here I'm not necessarily referring to trying to bring up a so-called weak body part, you know, area that tends to be either genetically deficient cuz in some cases Yep. I learned for instance, having seen a lot of competitive track and field championships. I love watching track and field as a spectator up to Hayward Field in Oregon whenever there's a meet and Oh sure, really love that. The sprinters are amazing. They have some of the highest calves in the world that I've ever seen. I mean like little like mi little micro calves, but they're fast as hell.

0 (3h 3m 42s):
Yep. It's

1 (3h 3m 43s):
In, it's, they're right behind the knee and they have a very long distance between that calf and their foot. Right. Which makes it propulsion

0 (3h 3m 49s):
Excellent. Right? They wouldn't stand a chance as a competitive bodybuilder. Nope. But because something different is being selected for in body building, but obviously they're, they're magnificent for sprinting. Most people of course reside somewhere between the extreme of, you know, very long muscle bellies from you know, origin to insertion or very, very short muscles. Usually people will have one or two body parts that they want to emphasize for whatever reason. You know, these days it seems to be people are really, whether they saying now like glutes or the new biceps or biceps or the new glutes or I don't know. Anyway, you see this stuff. I love

1 (3h 4m 22s):
'em both by the way. I am so pro curls in the squat rack. There you

0 (3h 4m 26s):
Go. Love it. Right? There you go.

1 (3h 4m 27s):
So no, no, nobody killed me.

0 (3h 4m 29s):
So everyone has their thing, but the, that they would like to emphasize. But I have a question because we're specifically talking about hypertrophy, which is should people give themselves permission to not train a body part if their goal is balanced hypertrophy? I'll give a couple of examples. One of the reasons why I for instance not done a lot of free weight squatting is because despite my quadriceps being rather weak, according to you, they tend to grow rather easily relative to other muscle groups. Yeah. And the goal for me has always been balanced development. Yeah. And so I emphasize hamstring work and I emphasize, you know, calf work and hamstring work.

0 (3h 5m 9s):
It's not that I don't train my quads at all, but I do far less for them and I avoid the big compound movements for them. I occasionally do them. And what, again, this is not about what I do or don't do. Yeah. But I think that in the context of a conversation about hypertrophy, is it appropriate to give people permission to say, listen, if you're just genetically ha you know, strong, large lats doing a lot of chin ups and rows might actually be the worst thing for you if your goal is balanced development. And I, I ask because I don't often hear anyone, any, you know, credentialed people give people permission to completely avoid training a given body part. Yeah. If their goal is balanced development.

0 (3h 5m 51s):
And yet I think most people who are resistance training are seeking balanced development. I don't know anybody that actively wants to have big upper body small legs. I think that comes from neglect and laziness in most cases. Sometimes it's injury related or other things. But I think this is an important point to raise that any good program for hypertrophy, I would think would have to take into account people's genetic and natural variation, sport-based variation in which muscle groups just tend to grow easily for them and which ones require a lot more focus and work.

1 (3h 6m 23s):
Yeah, absolutely. You first of all, you have permission to do or not do anything you'd like to do in terms of, of hyper training. I generally wouldn't not recommend disregarding a muscle group entirely. I know that's not what you actually suggested, but just to make sure that people didn't hear it that way. What I would do is, in this example is I would continue to do those big movements. I would just keep the volume low. So I might do two sets or something twice a week. There's a whole bunch of reasons you wanna make sure that those motor patterns are there. You wanna make sure that the, the, especially the benefit of these compound movements is you get to work so many complimentary muscle movements at the same time. So in the case of like loaded squat, you're not only working stability in the hip as well as the knee, but you're also working upper body.

1 (3h 7m 9s):
Your, your rhomboids are keeping you in position, your neck has to stay in position, your toes, everything is working. And so it's really difficult to get those things when you take that movement out and you replace it with say a, a machine hamstring curl. That whole element of balance neurological control is very, very important to maintain over time. And that just gets removed with, if you go to machines only. So I, I would keep some of those things in maybe even not all year round, but maybe one quarter of the year, two quarters every other, rotate it something like that. As long as again, you're not, if the reason you weren't doing say those squats was because you're like, ah, here's my back or something. Okay, great, then leave it out. But if it's just simple, you don't want your quads to grow too much, I would just keep that volume low and do something just to kind of touch it, keep it activated and and to maintain all those other things like flexibility, arranged emotion, I wouldn't bet anything, your abductors are probably underdeveloped right now.

1 (3h 8m 3s):
You can get those by doing your squats cuz you're not really doing I'm sure in much abduction training. And so this things like that, that just get lost when you're only thinking all big muscle groups that, that calm inherent in doing the larger movements and so you don't have to worry about them or train them separately.

0 (3h 8m 19s):
I appreciate that. And in reality I do two to three really hard work sets of hack hack machine squats per week. Yeah. Which is plenty for me to maintain and even get a little bit stronger. Yeah. But per our earlier discussion about a year ago I shifted to doing very low repetition ranges to main strength in that movement. There you go. But I am actively avoiding hypertrophy in that muscle group. Yeah.

1 (3h 8m 43s):
Or another solution would actually be to do something like one set to failure a week, not even extremely long. Just, you know, do something in the eight to 15 repetition range at the end of all that strength set and just get a little bit of pump there and then, and then just, just so, just so that those muscles can touch that level of fatigue, touch that level of strain and mechanical tension walk away.

0 (3h 9m 3s):
Great. Thank you for that. What about exercise order?

1 (3h 9m 8s):
Amazing. So in implicit in this exercise choice thing, it it's, what you're gonna notice is these modifiable variables interact with each other, right? And you can clearly see how when we talked about volume and to clarify volume is the repetitions multiplied by the sets? That's typically how we express volume. Well that's gonna be directly influenced by intensity. The heavier load you put on the barbell, the less repetitions you could do and the inverse right rest intervals, the shorter you keep your rest intervals then neither the lower the weight has to go. The intensity or the lower the rep range has to go order is the same thing. Choice is the same thing. So all of these things modify each other. They play a little bit of a hand in, in what everything else does. So with the exercise choice thing, rolling into exercise order, you get to play a couple of games here.

1 (3h 9m 50s):
When we talked about strength and power, I basically said stick to the big movements most complicated and compound movements first. You don't have to do that with hypertrophy. You can do this in a couple of ways. You can do the thing you're just simply most interested in first. You can do this thing called pre fatigue. So say you're, you're going to do a back day, you could go in and do nothing but isolated biceps as your very first exercise and then roll into your, your pulling movements. Because what you'll see is during most pulling activities, the biceps are a secondary or a tertiary muscle group, but you've pre fatigued them. You've guaranteed that muscle of most interest got, it's, it's most training in and everything else is secondary. So you can start if you want with single joint movements, you can start with isolation stuff or you can start with compound stuff.

1 (3h 10m 34s):
Either way it just really comes down to preference and what you're specifically trying to develop. Now this also goes back to the exercise choice question, right? Because it's, it's sort of the same thing, right? Like which 1:00 AM I choosing and where I wanted it, the cap, this was the exercise splits. And, and so we, we just sort of talked about am I doing body part splits? And I know a question I get a lot here is, well, which ones should I package together? I'm not really concerned with it. What you, all you should worry about is how many times per week and in fact total volume you achieve on a muscle group per week. And I don't, it doesn't really matter how those things are folded in. It's really a personal preference issue. One mistake that we see here commonly is grossly under appreciating that the legs are not a muscle group, right?

1 (3h 11m 23s):
So the legs have a whole bunch of muscle groups in them. So we see a classic split, like I'll do shoulders and chest Monday and then I'll do, you know, biceps and forearms Tuesday and then legs Wednesday or whatever and then back to upper body. And then I was like, you're like wait a minute, you have four days dedicated to the upper body and one for quote unquote legs. Well like you hope you, you can see the imbalance. What's that's going to happen there over time is you're going to do do far more upper body than you are lower body. And that's not appropriate. So you just wanna think about your lower body like you would do if you're gonna do body part splits, then include those things as well and don't just chunk everything in as legs once a week.

1 (3h 12m 4s):
If you wanna do that, that's actually okay. But that day has to be very, very challenging and you probably should do a quite a bit of volume there cuz you, you're almost truly not going to hit the total weekly volume needed to optimize muscle growth if you're literally only doing once a week of your legs.

0 (3h 12m 21s):
So along those lines, let's talk volume. Yep. How much volume does each muscle group need per week in order to generate and for that matter maintain hypertrophy.

1 (3h 12m 33s):
Right? So the, the kind of minimum number we're gonna look for here is 10 working sets

0 (3h 12m 37s):
Per week. Correct. Per muscle group. Correct. And just to make sure that everyone's on the same page, if I do a chin up or a pull up, I'm going to mainly be training my back muscles, my lats if I'm doing it correctly.

1 (3h 12m 53s):
Lats and rom boards and biceps.

0 (3h 12m 54s):
Right. And a few. So, but they'll be indirect targeting of the biceps. So would you include indirect targeting? So for instance, if I, you said 10 sets per week, let's just use biceps cuz it seems that that's the go-to generic muscle for what, why is that by the way, that when people ask somebody to, you know, flex their muscle, they always flex their bicep. They don't flex their calf or their quad or their glutes or something. I guess there's some, you know, public decency issues

1 (3h 13m 20s):
Around. I can tell you with my children, that's the very first muscle I taught them to flex. They're glutes. No, they're, they're

0 (3h 13m 25s):
Biceps. Oh, I was gonna say are and good, good healthy parenting advice from Dr. Andy Galpin. So if it's 10 sets per week for biceps in order to maintain or further grow the biceps, but does that mean if somebody does 10 sets of chin-ups or 10 sets of chin-ups in rows that they are checking off any of the boxes for biceps, assuming that they're doing the movement properly? Yeah. And targeting the major muscle group that a given movement is supposed to target. Sure. Which in my mind, when you're doing chin up, you're supposed to mainly be using your back muscles and then there are secondary muscles or secondary activation of other muscles.

0 (3h 14m 8s):
But of course some people their arms grow like crazy when they do chin-ups and their back doesn't grow at all. So this is where we're back to the kind of genetic preloading of the system. Yep. If you will. So how, how does one meet this 10 sets per week minimum when dividing different body parts and thinking about this direct and indirect activation?

1 (3h 14m 29s):
Right. So two things. There's no specific exact rule here. And this is why these set ranges are ranges, right? And this is why, why we don't say like 10 is, so 10 would be sort of the minimum number you want to get to the more realistic number that most people, especially if you're advanced or even intermediate, is more like 15 to 20 working sets per week. Okay. Now if you're very well trained, you probably want to even push more towards like 25. And in fact past that there's, there's not a lot of research. So the optimal number may be 30. We don't, we don't really know. It's just hard to get that much work in. It may actually even be detrimental.

0 (3h 15m 3s):
And here we're referring to natural athletes. That is people who for whatever reason, either because they're not taking any prescription drugs or maybe if they are, whose levels of steroid hormones, mainly the androgens like testosterone, et cetera. Yeah. Do not exceed the normal reference range values. Yeah. Either because that's what they are naturally or that's what they're replacing through pharmacology. Yep. Whereas when we think of technically someone could be taking exogenous hormones to replace a deficiency. Totally. And then there's still a normal range. Okay. But I just want to clarify because you work with athletes a number of different sports Yeah. Where drugs are and are not tolerated, et cetera.

0 (3h 15m 44s):
And the general population that what we are talking about here is for the general population. Yeah. Not for steroid using

1 (3h 15m 50s):
Athletes. Correct. Okay. Yep. Correct. So, so 10 was just sort of that like absolute minimum number to maintain, which is actually pretty cool if you think about it this way. If, if you went in and you did three sets of 10, it's a very steroid, three sets of 10 repetitions, correct? Yeah. You're already at three, you did that three days a week, you're at your nine. That's almost 10. If you also just went to the gym one day a week, you did three sets of 10 and you did three exercises, you're at nine working sets, you're basically done. So achieving 10 sets per week per muscle group. And now we're not even talking about indirect activation of a secondary. So you're, you're going to hit 10 fairly easy extension of that hitting 20 is actually still not that hard because of what's actually gonna happen there.

1 (3h 16m 34s):
So in your example, if you're doing your chin up well would the biceps count there? There's no exact rule there because there could be technique issues. It could be hand positioned. So you mentioned chin up very specifically A chin up is actually gonna put your hands in, in this position where your palms were facing up, right? This is supination and pronation. So you're gonna be there. Well that's actually quite different than a pull-up where your hands are are in the opposite direction. So a a chin up actually is gonna be pretty good activator your biceps for most people. So you would expect actually to, to probably count that cuz it's gonna be very difficult to not see some fatigue in your biceps, depending on your mechanics, depending on, and by that I mean just the, the segment lengths of your bones, right?

1 (3h 17m 17s):
That's where your muscles or originate and insert, there's nothing you can do about, it's not even a technique or a focus issue. It's just simple fact the matter of that's how you pull best in that area. The position of which your hands are on the Barbra wider grip, more narrow grip, it's going to change muscle use. So we talked about earlier, I think in the previous episode that exercises do not determine adaptations. Applications do, but exercises do determine things like the movement plane, the joint use, and typically the ecentric concentric sort of ratio as well as oftentimes the muscle groups involved. So there's just not a lot of things you can do depending on how you are built of, you know, some exercises activating a secondary group and you don't want it.

1 (3h 18m 0s):
So it's not always a technique. You should may just be, that's how you're built. Right? And the same could be true for a squat, the high bar versus low bar sort of example we talked about earlier. It's, you know, you, you can see plenty of, of evidence on muscle activation studies where people even doing the vertical back squat style have tremendous glued activation and folks doing the, the low bar have tremendous quad activation. So a lot of it depends on personal mechanics. So what I counted is the question really, you just have to ask yourself, number one, do you really care that much? You know, you have a range to get to. If you were anywhere between 10 to 25 working sets, you know, you're fine. So if you count it or don't count it, it's just gonna change the difference between whether you did 17 working sets or 23.

1 (3h 18m 45s):
And either way you're fine. So I don't really care. Number two are, are you actually feeling anything there? So if you're doing your chin-ups and your biceps are blowing up, I'm counting that, right? If you're doing it and you're like, no, I don't feel any fatigue there, it's all my, then I'd probably say, okay, we're not even gonna count that as as towards. So you can just let that guide you a little bit towards your count.

0 (3h 19m 4s):
Yeah. I've always noticed that there are certain muscle groups that are very easy to isolate. Yep. When under load. And those are almost always the same muscle groups that are easy to contract very hard without any load whatsoever.

1 (3h 19m 22s):
Bingo, you nailed, that's actually really insightful. So you can kind of use this heuristic of, of like if you can contract your lats just standing here, you're probably going to contract them very well when you lift. If you can't, you can probably assume about the same thing's gonna happen. So yeah, you'll know this is actually, the lats are actually really interesting because they tend to be one of the more difficult muscle groups to learn how to activate. So if you're in your journey and you're just like, I have no idea, and you can look up like a lap pose. So how do you, like how do you puff your last, how do you show it? And if you do that and you're like, wow, there's no movement here, just recognize that's extremely common and that is probably going to take you many, many, many months of trying before you start to see some movements and probably even a few years before you really start to see activation.

1 (3h 20m 8s):
So you, you're not some sort of like specific like special genetic anomaly. It's very, very common. It's uncommon to not be able to activate your biceps, right. That everyone can do that. But if you're just like, man, I can't get this here, I'm just gonna stop doing it. Do not do that. Just keep at it and just keep concentrating and thinking about that muscle group. It will take some time. It's very common to, to have challenges activating lots.

0 (3h 20m 32s):
Yeah. I've noticed that many of the muscle groups that were responsible for a large fraction of the work in the various sports that I played as a young child are muscles that are very easy for me to selectively isolate and induce hypertrophy in. I suppose I'm one of those mutants where my lats happen to be one such of those muscle groups, but I think that's because I swam a lot when I was a kid.

1 (3h 20m 57s):
I was literally gonna ask, were you a swimmer? Yeah. That's like a telltale

0 (3h 20m 59s):
Sign. Yeah. Everyone, every kid in my town swam and played soccer. There you go. And then later I, you know, I skateboarded and did some, you

1 (3h 21m 6s):
Generally hear that answer

0 (3h 21m 7s):
Is that

1 (3h 21m 8s):
You either were a swimmer or you were a wrestler. So it's like that pulling and pull toward you is, is thousands of repetitions allowed you to get very good at contracting.

0 (3h 21m 18s):
But because I also played soccer and skateboarding, but I didn't do any baseball, basketball or football muscle groups like deltoids are very challenging to activate and isolate. Yeah. Yeah. So I do think that early development is superimposed on a genetic template that sort of predicts which muscle groups are going to be easier or harder to isolate and and

1 (3h 21m 38s):
Train. It's also a very good case for why it's important to do as many different athletic activities as you can in your youth.

0 (3h 21m 45s):
Yeah. And if you do skateboard, definitely learn to ride switch. Cause every, every skateboarder I know has one leg that's larger than the other and one calf that's larger than the other. And actually for that matter, people that do martial arts that don't learn to, if they're not south paw, if they don't learn to switch up and do their their work south paw, you see the same thing. I mean you're building an asymmetry into the system and it's not just muscular, it's neural. Oh sure. It's strongly neural. Yeah. So yeah, kids, parents get your kids doing a bunch of different things. I suppose gymnastics would probably be the best sport all around in terms of movement in multiple planes and activating all the different muscle groups.

1 (3h 22m 24s):
Yes and no. There's a lot of benefit, no question about it. There's a lot of other things though that it, that has limited ability. So almost everything in not like Jim has is great, but almost everything in that is pre-planned, which is a major downfall. Right? So the joy of skating is there's so much pro preceptive input that you have to make decisions very quickly in in small windows. Now you have a little bit of that when you're flipping in the air you have to land. But you gymnastics gymnasts tend to have a very specific routine that they're working on and they work on that routine for years. Go ahead. So

0 (3h 22m 55s):
The skateboarding for me was transportation. It was freedom and it didn't require any coaches or parental oversight. Yeah,

1 (3h 23m 1s):
Yeah. Ball sports have the beauty of of reaction and things like that. So all of them were wonderful. Yeah. Good to do. A lot of them.

0 (3h 23m 9s):
You've established that 10 really to 20 sets per week. Yeah. Is the kind of bounds for maintaining and and initiating hypertrophy. Yep.

1 (3h 23m 18s):
If I were to like flag one of them, I would say 15 to 20 is the sets great that you want to get working. Now it gets complicated when you ask, well how many reps per set do I have to get to? Okay, well we also can complicate that by repetition type and tempo. Just sort of let all that go for now and just think if you're getting close to that range, you're in the spot and all you have to do now is balance Two things, recovery and continued training. Okay. So if you're somewhere in this 10 to 20 working sets range and you are in a position where you can continue to do that, you're not so sore and so damaged and beat up that you can't maintain that volume for, you know, eight weeks at a time or at least six weeks at a time that I'd probably say either the style of repetitions, the amount of repetitions per se you're doing are too much.

1 (3h 24m 8s):
The volume is getting to you. However, if you're not seeing adaptations, then I'd say maybe the repetitions aren't enough. And so that's like, that's the kind of game you're running. Now there could be plenty of other factors.

0 (3h 24m 20s):
Intensity of

1 (3h 24m 20s):
Course. Yeah. Intensity, intent. And then of course the other things, sleep, nutrition, et cetera. All these other things that, that go into our visible stressor category that we always analyze. This, this sort of brings up this idea of responders and non-responders. So we get this one a ton. So why is it some people, my my gym buddy, my roommate, we go to sleep the same time we're on the same nutrition plan, we work out together. She triples in muscle size and I don't have like no gain whatsoever. Well there's a lot of work that we're trying to do to identify the molecular mechanisms behind responders and non-responders cuz they clearly exist. In fact, this is one of the reasons why every paper basically will ever publish again.

1 (3h 25m 2s):
If I, you know, if I do always reports individual person data. So rather than group averages, you get to see, you know, if there's 10 subjects in it, you get to see how each of the 10 responded because the group average can get confusing. What you really wanna see is how many actually people got better, how many got worse, how many may be changed, and if so, so we'll always report those individual data. Cuz when you go to a train, you're, you're, you, you're not the group average that's very important to them. Okay? So if you do that, you can see a beautiful line of these hyper responds, the bell curve in the middle of the normal responders. And those folks who like through any training study just won't get any better if you can tease out what you can't.

1 (3h 25m 42s):
But let's say in science, you could tease out all the extra factors, total stress, load, hydration, sleep, et cetera. What you often see is non-responders, a lot of the time it's not that they have a physiological inability, it's just that they, they need a different protocol and a lot of times it's, they just need more volume. So if they can handle that and they're not accessibly beat up, just give them more volume and they tend to see a lot of breakthroughs. You see the same thing with plateaus. So it's typically sort of just like, okay, the routine you're on, you've been on it for too long. We need to either go to the other end of the hypertrophy spectrum for intensity, which means like if you've been in the like 60 to 70% everyone repetition max range, maybe we actually need to go heavier at take our repetitions down, maybe even our total volume down and go heavier.

1 (3h 26m 26s):
Try that. A great way to break through plateaus of, of grand if all the other boxes are checked. The other one is, is do the opposite, which is like, okay, we're gonna go higher, we're gonna go sets a 20, sets a 25 high, very high repetition range and really get after it not, and do as much damage. Cuz you don't tend to get as sore from those really high repetition ranges. You'll get more sore from the lower repetition, higher intensity range than you will typically the other ones. And, and see if we can bust, bust through some plateaus there. So it, it just generally means you need to do something a little bit different than your, your training partner.

0 (3h 26m 59s):
So we've talked about exercise choice and we've talked about the number of sets that one needs in order to induce hypertrophy per week. What about repetition ranges? You've mentioned pretty broad repetition ranges. How many repetitions per set is required in order to induce hypertrophy?

1 (3h 27m 17s):
Yep. So there are two caveats here before I give, well the number is somewhere between like four to 30 reps,

0 (3h 27m 24s):
30 repetitions.

1 (3h 27m 25s):
Absolutely. In fact, I think you can go much higher.

0 (3h 27m 27s):
The first 20 have to be feel exceedingly light. Correct. And during those first 20 or so repetitions is the goal still to contract the muscle as hard as possible on each repetition?

1 (3h 27m 39s):
So this is the caveats here. So caveat number one is there is an assumption that by the end of the set you're getting somewhat close to failure. And so you don't have to go to absolute failure to, to induce most like trophy. But you, you also have to get kind of close. So if you're gonna do a set of 25 and you finish it and you're like, ooh, yeah, like that was kind of starting to get hard at the end, that's not going to be enough. If you're gonna do a set of five or six and the same sort of expression comes outta your mouth, it's not gonna be, so in that case it doesn't matter your up range. If you're not getting somewhat close to failure, again, it doesn't need to be complete failure.

1 (3h 28m 20s):
A good number to think about is like minus two, which is what we call reps in reserve. Which is sort of like I got within two or so reps of failure and then I stopped.

0 (3h 28m 29s):
And can we define failure, at least for sake of this portion of the conversation as the point at which you can no longer move the resistance could be your body could be a weight machine, et cetera, that you can no longer move the resistance anymore in the concentric phase of the exercise movement in good form.

1 (3h 28m 53s):
Correct. That, that's a really nice momentary muscular failure is, is how we typically define it. There's a wonderful review, I think it's open access that just came out in the last handful of months. Eric Helm's team outta New Zealand. Eric's is a, is a great scientist and a very experienced physique coach and a competitor himself. So he knows a lot about this area and, and that paper went through all the exact definitions in detail, all the caveats that we're not gonna have time to get into today. So I would recommend folks like check that out at they Walmart information, but I'll, I'll try to get to the highlights of it right here. So what they basically showed is going all the way to failure in the defining failure like you just did, right? So momentary muscular failure, you can't complete another repetition through complete range of motion through whatever range of motion you determine prior to as well as with good technique.

1 (3h 29m 41s):
So other body parts aren't being compromised sort of et cetera, and doesn't need to be total failure. That minus two failure is still needed in caveat two, which is again very, very highly trained individuals. You won't see people who are like Eric or other folks who are six to eight to 10 years into very serious training who don't have to go to fill, you're probably a little bit more than what I just said. So the, the, the layout that they brought in their paper was very nice and they basically said, okay, here's a couple of scenarios in which going to failure is maybe the best way to do it. Number one, you probably should do it on a little bit of the safer exercises.

1 (3h 30m 21s):
So maybe taking your back squat on a barbell to complete failure and doing that as like a standard protocol multiple times a week. It's maybe not the best choice. So maybe if you're gonna do barbell back squats, you take that to your, you know, your, your one or two reps in reserve, stop there. It's a lot of work. It actually, going back to our discussion of the Perin chart, it's a similar idea, right? Where you're gonna spend most of your time in these working sets, 70 to 90 sort of percent. And then you're gonna take that failure to maybe the hack squat machine or maybe even to the leg extension machine. So a little bit of a safer exercise. They also can tend to be single joint exercises. Don't have to be, but they're just ones that are not as complicated and you're not likely to injure other body parts when you're doing it.

1 (3h 31m 6s):
All right? So that's one, one way to go about it. Another way to go about it is simply doing it on like the last movement of the day, right? And so again, you're not gonna do it on your first three or four exercises, but whatever your last finisher is, you'll hit total failure on that one. And that kind of keeps you in a range of, yeah, you hit some failure, you got a lot of overall work done. So that's a lot of stimulus. That's a lot of noise going to that nucleus that says grow, grow, grow, grow, grow. But you didn't totally obliterate yourself, especially if you don't have the assistance of anabolic steroids, right? That's very, very important. If you have those, you can push this a lot harder cuz your recovery would be significantly enhanced. If not, you kind of wanna walk away from that.

0 (3h 31m 47s):
I have to assume that, you know, 99% of people listening to this do not and, and and yet among those who are not taking anything in terms of anabolics, they're I think is a large range of re recovery out there. Some people just tend to recover better. Some people I think also are far more diligent about what I would call the necessary but not sufficient variables of yeah, adequate sleep. Yep. Proper nutrition, limiting stress and and so on.

1 (3h 32m 16s):
Yeah, I can't wait to break all that stuff down. I've got a whole, I got a very long discussion for all those things.

0 (3h 32m 21s):
It, we will get into it in all its practical realities and actionables before long. What about rest between sets?

1 (3h 32m 30s):
Great. This is the interplay now. So O one actually thing we said for a long time is you wanna stick between 30 to 90 seconds of rest between sets for hypertrophy. And that's because you're trying to in activate this metabolic disturbance or disruption, you need a little bit of a burn, a little bit of a pump to go there. More recent research, a lot of these out Brad Schofield's lab and others have shown that that's just doesn't seem to be the case again for moderate to, to newly trained individuals. Whether that's the case for the highly trained folks, I don't necessarily know. I don't think there's any difference here. So you can take up to three to five minutes rest in between sets and be fine.

1 (3h 33m 10s):
The caveat here though is this, if you're gonna rest longer, that means the metabolic challenge is lower. So you need to then increase the challenge in either mechanical tension, which think about is weight load or muscle breakdown. So you can't lower one of the variables, keep everything else the same and expect the same result. So if you're going to have more rest, then you need to either preserve the load on your bar or the volume one of the two has to happen. So this gives people a lot of opportunity. I generally tell people if you're gonna train for hypertrophy, it's probably best to stay in the two minute range at most. You can go longer, but a lot of people have a hard time actually coming back and then executing that next set with enough intent to get there and or it's going to make your workouts tremendously long so you can stick to the shorter one.

1 (3h 34m 4s):
You don't have as much mechanical tension, but that's okay, you can still get there. But in reality of it is you, you can do whatever you would like.

0 (3h 34m 11s):
Tell me if this is a reasonable structure given what you've told us. Three exercises per muscle group first exercise, slightly heavier loads. So repetition ranges somewhere between let's say five and eight with perhaps hitting failure or close to it on the last set. Rest periods of somewhere between two or let's, let's get wild and say five minutes. Sure. Okay. So it's a little bit more of a strength type workout at that point. But then moving to a second exercise of three or four sets where the repetition ranges now eight to 15, shortening the rest periods to 90 seconds or so. And then on the third exercise, repetition ranges of 12 to 30, this number 30 kind of, it makes me wide eye, I can't remember the last time I did a set of 30 thinking it was for hypertrophy.

0 (3h 35m 3s):
But what you're saying makes absolutely sense is research back. So very short rests intervals, maybe 30 seconds between between sets. Would that allow somebody to target all three forms of major adaptation? I mean my, in my mind it works. You know you're talking about mechanical loads. Yeah, you're talking about stress and damage and you're talking about metabolic stress. Is that better than to, for instance, do all the high repetition work in one workout per week and then higher loads in the other workout? It does it matter if you divide them up or combine them

1 (3h 35m 41s):
It, it would not matter. I would say it matters in the sense of your personal practical situation. Well

0 (3h 35m 48s):
Long rest for me, I love training heavier with longer rest. Great. But I'm hearing that there's real value to doing these higher repetition ranges. Yeah,

1 (3h 35m 58s):
So the formula you set up there in a second, it's great if you wanna do it the other way, that's fine. You really, it's kind of idiot proof. You can set this up however you'd like. You could actually do the inverse. Theoretically you could do the sets of 31st and then move to your sets of, it doesn't really matter because we're trying to just get to a certain total stimuli and you're gonna hit it eventually. So you have a lot of room to play here. You also have a lot of room to adapt based on your circumstances. God, I'm short on time today. Typically my workout takes me 60 minutes for this plan. I have, I've only got 35 today. What do I do? Well, if you're training for strength, that's a different answer than if you're training for hypertrophy.

1 (3h 36m 39s):
If you're training for hypertrophy, you need to make sure you hit that total volume. So in this particular case, lower the load, lower the rest intervals and just get to the burn and get going as much as you can. If you're training for strength, I would rather you cut your volume in half, get those few repetitions done at that high load and just don't do very many sets today. That's a better result. So the goal that you're going after is going to determine what we call chaos management, which is that thing like that running outta time today, my time is short or I didn't even think my time is short, something got cut off, I'm not feeling it today. I'm in a hotel, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Which is life, right? And that's gonna be 10 to 50% of your workouts.

1 (3h 37m 20s):
It's gonna be chaos management. Well how you make those decisions is gonna go back to understanding number one, what goal you're going after and the number two, what are the physiological consequences? We call these physiological limiters for each one. And that's gonna tell you what to select and prioritize the volume, the intensity or whatever else.

0 (3h 37m 40s):
I'd like to ask about frequency, but I'd like to frame it a little bit differently than that. I'd like to ask about total workout duration, which dovetails with frequency because if one is hitting the appropriate number of sets per week and one is combining different muscle groups on the same days, will then workouts are going to be a very different duration. Yeah. Than if one is doing a different body part each day, for instance. And so I feel like any discussion about frequency has to be within the context of workout duration and vice versa. Yeah,

1 (3h 38m 15s):
If you are a, a lifting junkie and you're very consistent in your schedule, I'm actually okay with body parts. But most people ha are not that. And so the concern there is if you say are isolating and waiting to do your glutes on one day of the week and something happens on that day, you might go another 13 days now before training it, you know, between workouts. And that's really difficult to maintain. The frequency won't be high enough unless the load and volume on that one day is astronomically high. It's just not gonna happen. So while if you look at the research frequency in terms of how many days per week doesn't matter that much, as long as the total load and failure are equivalent practically it's a challenge.

1 (3h 39m 1s):
So it's, it's hard because life gets in the way for most people, especially if you have kids in a job and, and all these things over there. So I actually prefer doing something more like three days a week of total body and if something happens, you've just missed a, that body part for 48 hours, 72 hours. I like that a little better for most people. Not because it's more effective, but just because it, it it's a little bit more resilient to life and you can get there if you wanted to actually do a little bit of a combination. So if you wanted to do like two days a week of whole body and then two days a week of a little bit of a body part split, then you're actually sort of hedging against all risks there. As long as you get to that total number there. Now there is actually some evidence in a couple of ways that maybe a little bit more frequently is a little bit better, but the difficult is now going back to the practicality question of like how many people really can train just their strength training six days a week.

1 (3h 39m 53s):
Wow. That doesn't count any of their long duration stuff. It doesn't how their high heart rate, their flexibility, their okay. It's just really, really, really hard to get all that stuff in. So it is, it tends to be easier on folks in terms of execution and long-term adherence in my opinion to get that volume accomplished and, and a little bit more frequent patterns but not once a week. So I, I'd like to kind of have it right there for most people. Not, again, not because it is technically more effective, but because you're less likely to fail to progress because of skipping a workout, something popping up your power going out in your, you know, garage door being locked on your

0 (3h 40m 34s):
Whatever. Yeah. Imagine that that happened to me this morning. Folks couldn't get outta my driveway cuz the gate with the electronic gate was down because the power was down Anyway, solve that problem. Yeah, the way you describe it, my sense is that workouts will last somewhere between one and two hours of real work. Is that about right?

1 (3h 40m 52s):
It doesn't have to be nearly that long. I mean you could certainly get enough the work done in 30 minutes if, if you

0 (3h 40m 57s):
Even a whole body

1 (3h 40m 58s):
Workout. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. So if, if you're doing that three days a week, so remember the numbers we're trying to hit here. Let's say we're trying to hit 15 working sets per muscle group per week. That's five working sets per day per muscle group. So if you did one exercise for that day, let's say you did squats, you did five sets, you did that three days a week you're done, there's your 15,

0 (3h 41m 17s):
But there are other muscle groups to hit on the same day. You're doing squats if you're doing a whole whole body.

1 (3h 41m 21s):
Correct? Yeah. So you, you've gotten 'em all already and so like all the leg muscles in that example are, are taken care

0 (3h 41m 27s):
Of. Ah, so you would not do separate hamstring work necessarily.

1 (3h 41m 30s):
You wouldn't need to. Now I I hamstrings is actually a little bit of a caveat. Like that's a good example of an exercise or a muscle group that's probably really good to make sure you isolate. It's challenging to get with your standard dead lift and and squat it. It's one of the probably ones that's most important to go target outside of that. But in theory theoretically though, outside of that you would get most of your leg muscles done with even a single exercise and even if you wanted to change it up. So you said, all right, Monday I'm gonna do a squat variation Wednesday, the next day I lift, I'm gonna do some sort of deadlift hinging variation. And then maybe Friday my third day I'm gonna do some sort of unilateral, maybe rear foot elevated split squat or something like that.

1 (3h 42m 10s):
All right. Maybe even a lateral lunge, maybe a different plane. Okay, you're in a pretty good spot. You're gonna hit most of those muscles to your 15 working sets. Especially if you take sort of that last set each day to pretty close to failure that's gonna get some serious work done. But you're not gonna be so fatigued you can't come back and train it a couple of days later and you'll be fine. So you could could even split that up into two days a week and now all you really have to do is hit something like seven working sets. So maybe that's two exercises per day, maybe some sort of a leg press and a leg hinge. You know, three to four sets each. You can hit six to eight sets that day. You do that three days a week. Now all of a sudden you're at that 2024 sets body being boom.

1 (3h 42m 51s):
Same thing with the upper body. I just gave lower body examples cuz you know, I like the lower body more. So it's not that challenging to get to those numbers and split and those workouts can be extremely short. So if you're to, if you were doing that three days a week, you know you're getting, you're doing that one exercise upper body, one exercise lower body, that certainly shouldn't take more than 40 minutes.

0 (3h 43m 11s):
I'm happy to hear that. Not because I don't like training. Yeah, please, please excuse the double negative. But I've found that resistance training workouts that extend longer than one hour of work and certainly longer than 75 minutes of work leave me very fatigued. Oh sure. And fatigue to the point where concentrating on cognitive work throughout the day can be challenging. Need a longer nap in the afternoon. I'm a big proponent of naps in the afternoon in any case, but requiring longer naps in the afternoon. Yeah. Et cetera. So at least for me, restricting the resistance training workouts to about 55, 0 to 60 minutes of real work. Yeah. For me three or four times per week has helped tremendously.

0 (3h 43m 52s):
So it's a case where doing higher intensity work in a shorter period of time and actually hitting muscle groups less frequently. For me that's again, once directly, once indirectly Yep. Has worked really well. And as you mentioned earlier, this could very well be explained by not my recovery quotient as some sort of genetic or physiological variable but the way that I'm training and indeed I like to do a few four straps and go to failure on too many sets and you know, of course weaned in that, in that genre of training,

1 (3h 44m 22s):
It's also fun. Like to just train hard. It

0 (3h 44m 24s):
Is, it's really fun. It is. I think that I've learned a lot by training to quote unquote to failure. Of course I think there's a lot of learning in there provided it's done safely. But what you're describing actually inspires me to at least give a try to these other sorts of splits and, and ways of training for hypertrophy and strength. Because this notion of not necessarily having to go to failure and still being able to evoke strength and hypertrophy adaptations is a really intriguing one. Dare I even say a seductive one. And that leads me to a question that is based on findings that I've heard discussed on social media, which means very little if anything, unless it's in the context of people who really know exercise science and you're one such person.

0 (3h 45m 8s):
And that's this idea that because resistance training can evoke a protein synthesis adaptation response, but that adaptation response is lasts about 48 hours before it starts to taper off. That the ideal in quotes frequency for training a given muscle group for hypertrophy is about every 48 hours. Is that true?

1 (3h 45m 34s):
Yes and no. So a couple of things there, remember in order to grow a muscle, there's multiple steps here. So you have the signaling response, which actually happens within seconds of exercise and can last depending on the marker, you know, up to an hour or two hours. Step number two then is gene expression. And when we see that, that's typically peaked around two to six hours post exercise. And then you have following that protein synthesis and that's that longer timeframe, somewhere between 12 hours there. It's certainly not peaked for 48 hours. It may be still there 48 hours from now, but it is is absolutely coming down at that point depending on sort of a number of factors. So that that part of it is sort of true. So there this is a combination of like some half truths and some like maybe just pedantic things that aren't really that important to differentiate.

1 (3h 46m 19s):
The real question I think is is like, okay, is it okay to train sooner slash is it better to train sooner or actually is it better to wait longer? There's no real reason to think that you need to train if the goal is hypertrophy any sooner than 48 hours afterwards. I can't think of an advantage that that would confer. I I also can't think of any practical applications athletes, physique, bodybuilders coaches that ever found tremendous success doing that. So I would be very skeptical that that is at any way better. Now could you do it in some instances of say, you know, you've got travel coming up like that so that you just Yeah of

0 (3h 46m 59s):
Course you wanna preload the system by destroying the muscle. Totally,

1 (3h 47m 3s):
No

0 (3h 47m 3s):
Problem. And then waiting seven days or 14 days, I've known people who have done that before. I do it all the time or layoffs

1 (3h 47m 8s):
I I every time like every single

0 (3h 47m 10s):
Time. So annihilate themselves and then take it weak

1 (3h 47m 12s):
Layoff. Yeah. And it's like there's no benefit there other than psychological. Like I just love it. Like it feels great to be super sore. I feel less crappy not training for those couple days cause I'm like, oh I'm super sore anyways,

0 (3h 47m 21s):
You need the extended rest.

1 (3h 47m 23s):
Yeah, of course. And it's just like, it's just a crappy justification in my brain that like excuse to do something really wild and that I totally don't need and get way sore than I should get

0 (3h 47m 34s):
Dr. Andy Galvin's suggestions of what not to do, but that he does.

1 (3h 47m 39s):
Yeah, a hundred

0 (3h 47m 40s):
Percent. So do as I say, not as I do the famous words of every research professor.

1 (3h 47m 43s):
Yeah. I think 48 hours is a reasonable time to wait. Can't think of any advantage of going sooner than that. There's really not a tremendous amount of advantage of waiting much longer than that. Certainly 72 hours is fine as long as you're hitting these concepts we've talked about. You can let really life determine that. I mean there's situations too with, with like particularly our athletes where we have to kind of break that because of schedule obligations they're playing every fifth day, every third day or something like that and you're just gonna have to lift them back to back days and you're just gonna have to get it done. But yeah, I, I can't think of why I would go outta my way to do that.

0 (3h 48m 19s):
The second part of that question is, let's say somebody trains a muscle, they train it properly, they hit it in the appropriate rep ranges an appropriate rest, et cetera. The the stimulus is there, the adaptation is set in motion. They're getting somewhere, somewhere at 48 hours or so, a protein synthesis peak that's gonna taper off. Yeah. But they don't train it 48 hours later. Sure. Or 72 hours later. They train it five or six days later. Not because they're lazy, not because they, they don't care but because they have other priorities that are woven in with getting hypertrophy in this muscle. Right. There are people who exist only to get hypertrophy in a given muscle group.

0 (3h 48m 59s):
But let's be fair, most people would like to grow that muscle group. But then does it necessarily mean that the muscle starts to revert to its preh hypertrophic state that is, does it atrophy and get smaller again? Because if it doesn't, I could see a lot of reasons for hitting a muscle group once every five days or seven days provided you hold onto the hypertrophy that you initiated five or seven days ago. Yeah.

1 (3h 49m 21s):
There's no reason to think you will lose anything in that sort of a time domain five to seven days. The only challenge with training that infrequently is can you actually get enough total volume done? So if you're gonna train the muscle once a week, you either have to go to real failure, real damage and soreness, or you have to figure out a way to hit 20 cents that day in that muscle. Not at all impossible. Especially if you're thinking, well actually all I have to get is 15 and I'm gonna do five sets of three exercises. That's not outrageous. Not at all. So, so like absolutely possible if you're wanting to go more towards 20 or gonna get closer to that 25 like now it starts to get pretty challenging. So scientifically the research will suggest it's gonna be equally effective.

1 (3h 50m 5s):
Practically it's challenging for people to hit sufficient volume without just being so demoralized afterwards because they're in so much pain they can't get outta their car cuz their legs are so trashed they can't sit on the toilet and get back up without crying from pain. So

0 (3h 50m 18s):
That's not good. No, that's not

1 (3h 50m 20s):
Good. I I say that cuz those are the actual examples that have happened in my life.

0 (3h 50m 24s):
Yeah. I, I'm realizing as we're having this conversation about ways to stimulate hypertrophy that I've sort of defaulted to more intensity as opposed to volume because of the time factor. Yeah. I have a lot of other things going on in my life and so within that hour I can't get enough sets in across all the muscle groups I need to hit and I'm only gonna do it about once a week. Yeah. And so it's at least for me, more advantageous to just train extremely hard. I actually use the pre-ex exhaustion technique that you mentioned before. Yep. Or pret fatigue as you referred to it, of hitting something really strong with an isolation exercise then doing compound exercises. I'm starting to think based on what you've told me, that pret fatigue and then a compound exercise in some ways it's not really two sets because if you're going to failure Yeah.

0 (3h 51m 10s):
Force reps, you're kind of pushing past failure, then you're doing a compound exercise and you're doing that two or three times, well that sounds like four to six sets, but the force repetitions are almost like an additional set, right? Yep. And so it's not 20 sets but it's four to six really, really hard sets that go beyond what we normally think of as a set. Totally. Okay. It's, it's sort of the difference between running on concrete and running on sand. When I go for a sand run, it's a very different experience.

1 (3h 51m 38s):
Totally. Yep. Okay. And this is why I should have mentioned this at the very, very beginning of our, our chat today. But all of these numbers that I'll give you for any exercise adaptation, you, you, you cannot think of them as hard lines. They are gradients. And so when we think about the number for hypertrophy in terms of repetitions, I said four to 30. Well what do you think happens at three? Do you think hypertrophy just stops? Right? In fact the number you'll see in literature is more like six to 30. I actually slide it down to four though, like personal preference because of that. But it just fades away. What do you think happens at rep 31 35? There's no, it just fades gradually over time. So you actually sort of brought this up one of your earlier questions and I'm not sure if you were even thinking about this or maybe you were, I just babbled on about something else.

1 (3h 52m 24s):
But if strength happens between this like one to five repetition range and I trophy typically happens in this like eight to 30 range, what happens if I were to do the sets of six or god forbid seven, like seven and nine are these numbers you just absolutely don't do in strength training, right? It's just like sets of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, God, 8, 10, 12. Like do not program a set of 13.

0 (3h 52m 45s):
Now when I'm trained sets of seven to nine

1 (3h 52m 47s):
It's great, right? We'll use sets of seven a lot with weightlifters cuz you can actually count numbers more effectively.

0 (3h 52m 54s):
But, but what happens in seven to nine rep

1 (3h 52m 55s):
Ranges great. So this is actually wonderful area of these like five to eight repetitions where you're gonna get a nice combination of a lot of strength gains and a lot of hypertrophy. So someone who's coming in going, man, I wanna get stronger and I wanna add muscle, what do I do here? Well that's actually a really nice answer. Train pretty hard in that like four to eight repetition range and you're gonna get a lot stronger and you'll still induce a lot of hypertrophy. If you want to really maximize hypertrophy, I would probably spend most of your time in the eight to 15 repetition per set range. You can go up to 30. Admittedly though I don't think it's optimal to spend most of your time at more than 15 reps per set.

1 (3h 53m 38s):
It's very challenging to maintain the focus required at rep 27 to actually get sufficient failure by rep 30. You just, you just give up way too early. It's hard to do the same thing at the bottom end of that spectrum in terms of, of really heavy to get there. So I, I really honestly think eight to 15 is still, it's cliche, it's that textbook number, but that's a reason, that's a textbook. It is tried and true and very, very, very effective. If for instance, you want to get stronger though and not invoke a lot of hypertrophy, you have a couple of tricks you can pull. Number one, stay south of that five repetition range. You do sets of one sets of two go as heavy as you can with all appropriate considerations and stick within maybe even up to three reps per set.

1 (3h 54m 23s):
You start start getting to four, to five to six. Now you're gonna start itching towards that, that hypertrophy range. So stay down there, do a lot more total sets. So do a, a classic example would be something like eight sets of three, right? You're gonna get a lot of practice, you're gonna get 24 very high quality reps with a lot of rest in between. Okay? You go from there, you go to managing caloric intake, making sure your protein is still on point. You wanna recover. But if your total calories aren't, you know, greater than 10 to 15% above your maintenance needs, then you're not gonna be able to put on a whole bunch of muscle mass cuz you just don't have the fuel for it. You can also then space your workouts out so that stimulus isn't coming extremely often.

1 (3h 55m 4s):
So if you do that thing a couple of times a week, it's not enough frequency in that signal. So remember that signal has to be frequent or loud. You didn't make it super loud and now you're not making it super frequent. You can get very, very, very strong like that and, and put on very low amounts of hyper treat if that's sort of the choice.

0 (3h 55m 23s):
So you told us a lot about volume and frequency and how that relates to protein synthesis and recovery to evoke the hypertrophy adaptation response. Yeah. How should people think about systemic damage in recovery? Because obviously the nervous system and the way it interacts with the neuromuscular system is the site of all the action here or at least Yeah. A lot of the action. Yeah. Yeah. And the nervous system can in fact become fatigued. Yep. You know, it has a great capacity, but the whole system that we're talking about can be worked to the extent that even if a muscle group like the biceps or the back is being allowed to rest while you're training legs and other muscle groups that your whole neuromuscular system needs rest.

0 (3h 56m 7s):
How does one determine whether or not your entire body needs complete rest or Yeah. Or low level active rest or exercise of a different kind.

1 (3h 56m 14s):
Yeah, yeah, sure. So I wanna actually tackle this cuz we're on the topic of hypertrophy. I'm assuming that that's the goal in mind here. Yes.

0 (3h 56m 21s):
Here I'm asking specifically within the context of hypertrophy. I realize that for other training goals, the, the answer to this question could be quite

1 (3h 56m 27s):
Different. Yeah. Okay. So we actually do this in a couple of different ways. Let's start local and work back to systemic, right? Because number one, what you're really concerned about is at the local muscle level is am I gonna create excessive damage? And I don't necessarily mean muscle damage here, I mean injury, right? So the kind of rule thumb we use is like three out 10 in terms of soreness. If you're more than three outta 10 in terms of soreness, mm, we're gonna start asking questions. If you're higher than six out 10, we're probably not training. This

0 (3h 56m 55s):
Is a subjective

1 (3h 56m 56s):
Measure, total subjective measure, right? And, and you'll, you'll know very quickly, right? If you're like, if you can barely graze your peck with your fingertip and then you're like, ah, I don't care what you score that we're not training, there's just no damage if you're three outta 10, if you're just like, oh, I'm kind of like a little bit stiff here. But once you get warmed up, you, you start feeling okay, you're probably okay to proceed there. So that is, is a very easy way to just think about soreness. You're gonna be a little bit tight depending on your training frequency. Now, zooming out to systemic, we use a whole host of things. So we actually have a a, a whole host of biomarkers we use, you can get a lot of these from blood. So you can look at things like creatine kinase, that's the very common one. Marker of muscle damage. We'll actually look at ldh, we'll look at mild globulin.

1 (3h 57m 39s):
That's just like, if you think about hemoglobin is the, is the molecule that carries oxygen throughout your blood. The mylo is the, the part of that that's actually in muscle. So when muscle gets broken down, that gets leaked out and put in your blood. That's one of the markers actually that's gonna be associated with things like rhabdo, which is like you're gonna see your urine is purple and it's extremely dark because you've got so much muscle breakdown that that happens and kidneys gonna have a problem and you put a bunch of this up in there. So we'll use those biomarkers. We'll actually also look at probably a couple things. You're familiar with a LT and asd. These are excellent biomarkers of muscle breakdown. So if we are actually suspecting that this is a chronic problem, we're gonna actually go and pulson blood. If it's just like I'm super sore today, we're gonna use that subjective marker.

1 (3h 58m 20s):
But if we're seeing this as constant like man, are we really pushing you way too much? Is there some sort of systemic problem? We're going to blood and we're gonna look at all those different things. Now AST to ALT is, is really specific, and I don't want to take us too far off track here, but the ratio to those things is actually very important as well. So if you look at the AST to a LT ratio, typically the number we'll look at as like 1.67 as that ratio is like higher than that, you have a pretty high risk of muscle damage. But really between, you know, me and you and a few of these listeners, anytime we start seeing a s t out kick alt, we're immediately thinking as in the ratio being higher than one, we're immediately thinking like there's something happening muscle damage wise. So that's actually a sneaky good indicator of just total muscle mass because the vast majority of that's gonna be in muscle.

1 (3h 59m 4s):
So those are actually some markers that we like a lot. If muscle damage is the thing we're concerned with, if we are more concerned with things like total training volume, systemic overload, then we may turn to something more like sleep. There's a lot of information we can actually get glean from changes in sleep behavior and function. You could also look at things like HR v, heart rate variability, which is a very classic marker and much more sensitive to changes with training than something like a resting heart rate. Which is, which is one thing you can actually do that's totally cost free. Just look at your changes and any elevation. Resting heart rate over time, especially more than three to five consecutive days is an indicator.

1 (3h 59m 44s):
But HIV is much more sensitive to things like training induced overload. So that's a, a quick version of stuff that we're gonna pay attention to. The last one I would add there is simply motivation. So if, if you're really training hard and you like training hard and you just like cannot force yourself to go anymore, that in and of itself can be a good indication of it's maybe not the day, maybe not the week. With all of these things, you wanna be careful about overreacting to a single day measure. Again, we look, we need to look at at least a trend of more than three days. Honestly, I'm looking at more than five days. I'm gonna pull back from that and think about what phase of training we're in, what part of the year we're in typically with our athletes are in season, pre-season, post-season, off-season, et cetera, to make our decisions about what we're going to do about it.

1 (4h 0m 27s):
Are we canning the entire workout? Are we doing a modified lower version, lower intensity? My default generally, if hypertrophy is the goal, remember volume is the driver there. So if I can, like, can we get in, can we go real light? Let's go to six outta 10 rpe. So relative perceived exertion, maybe we'll reduce the range of motion, maybe we will make it a little bit easier. Maybe go to machines or instead of going a squat, we'll just do, you know, leg extension, something like that. But I wanna still get enough volume in there that will keep you on target. And again, even going at 50%, not, not to high repetition, you know, 50% for a set of ten three sets. Just get a nice blood flow in there, get it in, get it out, aid in recovery, and then move on and come back the next day.

1 (4h 1m 12s):
That's probably what I would do rather than canning the entire session.

0 (4h 1m 16s):
How do other forms of exercise combined with hypertrophy training, for instance, can I do cardiovascular training for two or three days per week provided that cardiovascular training is of low enough intensity and not disrupt hypertrophy progression? And can I do that cardiovascular exercise before or after the hypertrophy training? Or does it need to be separated out?

1 (4h 1m 49s):
The answer to this is really what we call the crossover interference effect. Okay. It's really an energy management issue. So the only time endurance exercise starts to interfere or block or hinder attenuate hypertrophy is in one of two broad categories. Number one, total energy intake or your balance is off. So you can ameliorate this by just eating more. If you do that, then the interference effect generally goes away. The second one is you wanna make sure you avoid exercise forms for your endurance training that are the same working group and specifically the eccentric portion. So for example, we see much more interference with running on leg hypertrophy than we do cycling. Right? Less eccentric pounding and loading, less damage, less things to recover from the tissue.

1 (4h 2m 32s):
Seems to be totally fine. The only other thing you need to worry about here is total volume of your endurance work. So if you're doing a, a moderate intensity for a moderate duration, say 70% of your maximum heart rate for 25 minutes, it's unlikely to do much damage in terms of blocking hypertrophy, you're totally fine. Do you, can you do it before or after your workout? It's probably not gonna matter that much, right? So pret fatigue is okay for hypertrophy. So if your pre fatigue is coming from endurance, then you're totally fine, not a big deal afterwards. Cool. You wanna break it up into multiple sessions, that's probably better, right? So if you do your endurance work on a separate day, that's probably best case scenario if you can't do that. But you can break it up into two workouts.

1 (4h 3m 13s):
Say you lift in the morning and then you do your cardio at night, maybe that's second best. Third best is doing it at the end of your lift and finishing it. That's fine. Just make sure that you're maximizing your recovery on all the other tricks we'll talk about later. Make sure the calories are there. Make sure you're not doing a lot of ecentric landing and that endurance stuff and you'll be just fine.

0 (4h 3m 33s):
And where does higher intensity cardio fit into a hypertrophy program? So higher, higher intensity cardio, for instance, in my mind is getting on the assault bike and doing, you know, eight intervals of 22nd sprints and ten second rest in between. Or perhaps going to a field and doing some bounds and sprints and things of that sort. Not going all out, not up, you know, running for one's life. Yeah. But getting in up to about, you know, 85 90% of, of running for one's life. Sure.

1 (4h 4m 4s):
So we have a lot less information on the potential interference or not of high intensity stuff. It, the stuff we do have suggested it may actually aid in hypertrophy. And that's because if you think about it, one, the potential path to activation and muscle growth is this metabolic disturbance. You're gonna get that a lot with the, the high intensity interval thing. So it's not a terrible thing to do. I wouldn't do it to the level that it compromises your ability to come back and do your primary training. So if you're so fatigued, your legs are super heavy, they're depleted, you now have to ingest extra carbohydrates to replenish muscle glycogen to be able to handle both recovery and continued training, et cetera, that could then lead to a problem. But in general, we really don't see any reason why that is going to completely block or, or make it such that your training was wasted or it didn't work.

1 (4h 4m 51s):
And in fact, actually a very recent study came out where they had individuals perform six weeks of purely aerobic endurance, steady state long duration endurance for six weeks, I think prior to starting a hypertrophy phase. Compared that to individuals who did not do that. And those folks that did these six weeks of just, I think it was cycling, actually just endurance work had more muscle growth at the end of their hypertrophy training than those folks that did not. So this shows you very clearly, there are a lot of advantages that come with being physically fit to growing muscle. So folks that also have actually hit plateaus a lot, one of the things you may actually see some benefit from is actually doing a little bit more endurance work.

1 (4h 5m 36s):
Whether it's a steady state stuff, maybe it's a high, the higher intensity stuff, certainly if you're starting a training phase, it's a pretty good idea to do that. And there's a number of of physiologic reasons of why that's potentially occurring. But the, the lowest hanging fruit here is we sort of joke that, you know, like if you're so unfit that you're tying your shoes and you're warmup and you're already breaking a sweat, you probably don't have enough phys fitness to do enough training to get enough hypertrophy. So that is in fact your limiting factor. You're not recovering, you're super fatigued and damaged and sore because you're so unfit. So get fit first and then you can actually get more gains a week later. So you have to, to kind of kick the can down the road for a few weeks, but 10 weeks later you'll be in a better spot than you were by investing a little bit in your conditioning.

0 (4h 6m 22s):
So as you pointed out before, and I can only assume you're referring to me, hypertrophy training is idiot proof, meaning there's a lot of leeway in the variables, but not so much leeway that people can do anything. It, it's bounded by these general principles. So with your permission, I'm going to do a brief overview of my notes based on your description of the modifiable variables that will direct somebody towards hypertrophy. Yeah. Keeping in mind this backdrop of exercise choice, exercise order, selecting appropriate volume that sets in reps training frequency and needing some metric or way to have progression.

0 (4h 7m 3s):
Yeah. Either by adding more weight or by more tension or more metabolic stress and so on. In terms of exercise choice, it sounds like the choice of exercises is not super critical in terms of specificity. Yeah. But that the ideal circumstances that people are targeting all the major and frankly secondary and minor muscle groups, if you can even call them that Yeah. Across their exercise choices, that they're picking exercises that they can perform safely and that they can generate enough intensity so that they're getting close to failure without placing themselves into danger. Right. So for some people that might mean including large compound free weight exercises like squats and deadlifts and bent over barb rows as well as isolation exercises.

0 (4h 7m 49s):
And for some people there might be a bias toward more isolation exercises and machines, but of course machines don't necessarily mean that you can't use heavy loads in, in fact plate loaded machines like hammer strength machines. Yeah. And will allow for quite substantial loads. So picking two or three or more movements per muscle group can be valuable, but that overall consistency is going to outshine variation in the sense that you don't need to hit muscles with a different exercise. Every workout coming back to the same things has a benefit. And we heard about this in our discussion around strength and power as well. Okay. In terms of order of exercises there too, it sounds like there's a lot of flexibility.

0 (4h 8m 34s):
One could do the large compound exercise for let's say quadriceps and hamstrings and glutes first, like a, a squat or a front squat or could deadlift for that matter. But then if one deadlifted and primarily hit the glutes and hamstrings, then you might want to target the quadriceps more directly with leg extensions. Right. Or if one squatted and was loading the squat bar, carrying the squat bar in a way that was predominantly quadricep. Yeah. And less so glute and hamstring, then leg curls would be a good choice, et cetera. Okay. And train your calves folks very important. Unless you're a genetic freak Of course. Yeah. It's actually a good opportunity to say unless you're a genetic freak or you just have a genetic predisposition.

0 (4h 9m 15s):
Yeah. Or you've done sports and, and you have a genetic predisposition that gives you, you know, very large calves that don't require any training at all. I, I know people like this, they're, they're somewhat rare, but they're out there. Yeah. And those folks sometimes want to stay away from or minimize their training. You told me that even if you have a muscle group that's a hyper responder in terms of hypertrophy, getting at least one or two good hard sets per week is good because you want to keep functionality in that neuromuscular system. Love it. Okay. In terms of volume, again, we have a large amount of variation is what I'm hearing. That the total number of sets per week is a strong driving force of program design and selection that ideally you're performing 10 to 20 and probably more like 15 to 20 sets per week.

0 (4h 10m 2s):
And that could be divided up across multiple workouts or done in one workout. But that's 10 to 20 sets per week per muscle group, not really taking into account indirect activation. So that would be 10 to 20 sets, four biceps, your back work is gonna hit your biceps a little bit, maybe a bit more depending on the exercise selection. But it's really 10 to 20. And given that hypertrophy can still occur in pr, maybe it occurs better with more volume. Yeah. Then don't include the indirect work unless something about the architecture of your body and the inability to engage certain muscle groups like makes the a pull up really an arm exercise for you. Yeah. Do I have that right?

1 (4h 10m 43s):
The way that I would maybe define it is typically with movements we consider to be there to be primary movers, secondary movers, and then tertiary movers. Got it. Right. If it is a primary or secondary, I'm probably counting it. If it's tertiary or less, I'm probably not counting

0 (4h 10m 57s):
It. Got it. So going back to our example of a pullup,

1 (4h 11m 1s):
So an example of a pullup, I probably wouldn't count the biceps in a pullup, but I would probably count the biceps during a Chinup,

0 (4h 11m 7s):
Would you count the rear deltoid in a pullup?

1 (4h 11m 10s):
Probably not. May, maybe like it just depends. Probably not though. Okay.

0 (4h 11m 15s):
Train the rear del

1 (4h 11m 16s):
Also, that's only, honestly, the reason I answered that is because most people don't do anything for the real do adults anyways.

0 (4h 11m 20s):
But they should. Right?

1 (4h 11m 21s):
Absolutely. That's why I didn't wanna count it. I wanted you to go outta your way to make sure you did something specifically for the real rear adults,

0 (4h 11m 26s):
For aesthetics and for functionality and well, for, for health and and balance across the shoulder.

1 (4h 11m 31s):
Totally. Neck, shoulder, all of

0 (4h 11m 33s):
It. I'm so happy to hear you say this. I'm a huge fan of people doing rear deltoid work. Yeah. For all the reasons you described and network for that matter. I think people forget that the neck is the upper part of your spine. Yeah, yeah. And for postural reasons and for stabilization and safety reasons, it's really critical. But I think most people aren't familiar with how best to train the rear deltoids. Yeah. And neck. And I know a number of people are afraid of getting a big neck, which for reasons that are still unclear to me, is referred to as no neck. But let's leave out that no neck comment for the moment. What are some good exercises for targeting the rear deltoids and neck safely that people can perform for stabilization and for hypertrophy?

0 (4h 12m 17s):
Yeah,

1 (4h 12m 18s):
I would recommend people check out Eric Cressey. He's a, a wonderful strength positioning coach. He actually is, I think the director of pitching for the New York Yankees now is

0 (4h 12m 28s):
That spelled c r e s s i e

1 (4h 12m 30s):
C r e s s e y I believe. And he's got a facility in, I believe Boston as well as in Florida. So he's very, very involved in pitching as well as hockey and, and things like that. So he has so many free videos and resources on a, on so much of the shoulder girdle, mostly because he, he's dealt with overhead and throwing athletes and so the precision required their is tremendous. So you wanna be very careful when you start playing in this area because the wrong positioning of your scapula can cause a whole bunch of problems in your neck and low back. And so he would be a great resource to go take a look at that depending on how your, your scapulas are gliding and sliding and the way that you want your rotator cuffs firing your rhomboids.

1 (4h 13m 15s):
There's, there's, it gets like very complicated very quickly. So you wanna learn more. Go there as a very, very quick couple of answers. One of my favorite exercises is, is lying on a bench or, or putting some prevention then just doing a reverse fly. Basically the reason I like stabilizing the rest of the body is so you can make sure you can focus on just using those rear do and putting your scapula in the right position. Now there's a, there's a specific set of queuing that you want the scapula to move down and back for again, check out Eric or any number of folks in that area to do it. But that, that's a very simple way the reverse flight to get there.

0 (4h 13m 50s):
Great. And then in terms of neck exercises, yeah, I was told to avoid bridges because they can cause damage to the discs as

1 (4h 13m 56s):
Actually I would probably never do a bridge ever the rest of my life. So isometrics are, are a great exercise for that because if you think about what, what you're asking muscle groups to do and the neck, you mostly want it to be able to do a certain type of rotation, a little bit of flex and extension and some, some other movements. But in general it should be being stable. So you wanna walk through these joints asking kind of what they do. Are they a moving joint or they a stability joint in this case you wanna do there. So isometrics are gonna put you in a much better position. There's some actually pretty cool devices that you can wear and you can put 'em on your head and you can do all kinds of movement and get some great training there. Those are great starts, but if you don't have any of that, just basic isometrics are, are a great way to go about it.

1 (4h 14m 38s):
Neck bridges would not be on that list for

0 (4h 14m 40s):
Me. No neck bridges folks. In terms of sets and repetitions, we briefly touched on this, but anywhere from probably six repetitions all the way up to 30 repetitions, but probably more in the eight to 15 repetition range for hypertrophy

1 (4h 14m 58s):
Most of the time. Yep.

0 (4h 14m 60s):
And I'll just throw in there cuz I, I love this idea that if you want to get a relatively balanced adaptation related to strength and hypertrophy, that seven to nine range that the, the no man's or no woman's land of, of training repetitions.

1 (4h 15m 17s):
I always joke in class I'm like, okay, we, we go through the whole thing, right? You're like one to five strength, eight to 12, you know, hypertrophy and you're like great. And then I'm like, okay, so six to nine means nothing will happen at all and the kids are just like writing it down like

0 (4h 15m 29s):
Right. Good way to, for everybody to remember that there are adaptations triggered in the 69 rep range and it's a balance of strength and height. You'll

1 (4h 15m 36s):
Just get thrown out of any gym that I'm a part of.

0 (4h 15m 38s):
Fantastic if you do that. So, but the important point is to get close to failure and occasionally hit failure. Maybe occasionally throw in a forced repetition or a rest pause where you rest and then do a few more, something like that. But those intensity, increasing maneuvers will require a little bit more attention to recovery. Yes. Either time or or attention in some other way.

1 (4h 16m 2s):
And here's a little bit of carrot, I'll throw up people because people generally don't like to be told to not go to failure that often, right? So, so there's a handful of like half the folks are like, sweet, I don't have to train that hard to get there. And those folks, it's like, well yes, but I also said you just can't like do a half workout. You have to get pretty darn close to failure. And most people don't really know what failure means. So for that group it's actually, it's still probably harder than you think you want to train for the other group though, they're like wants to completely blow themselves out every single time. Dragging them back is, is more the key now for those folks. Here's what I can say. If you make sure that your hidden stressors, invisible stressors are completely taken care of, you can go to failure a lot more often.

1 (4h 16m 44s):
And so you need to dial those things in and then now you can go hammer yourself because you'll recover so much quicker. And we see this very commonly in all of our programs with with our athletes and and our non-athletes that when we get that the rest of the hidden and invisible stressors taken care of, their training volume goes up so much because they'll just start coming back and they're just like, oh my god, I'm not sore anymore. Oh my god, I'm not nearly as sore. I did this exact workout you know, countless times before and now I'm doing it and I'm not sore at all anymore. What the hell? Like we didn't do anything different with the programming or really the nutrition, but we got the rest of that allostatic load under control and boom, things take off.

0 (4h 17m 20s):
It's a lot like drivers. So many people seem to be riding the brake and so many people seem to be heavy on the accelerator.

1 (4h 17m 26s):
Yeah, that's actually one of the ways we describe, it's like you wanna go faster, people's inclination. Step one is to hit the gas. Our, our step number one is making sure your left foot's not on the brake. You'll go faster with less resistance, which means you'll actually wear down the system a lot slower by just taking your foot off the brake first. If you're then not going fast enough, now we can push the accelerator but I'm not pushing the accelerator while your foot's still on the brake, you're gonna go a little bit faster but not as fast as you should be going with that much work and you're gonna start wearing down brake pedals and things like that.

0 (4h 17m 54s):
So I like that analogy. So hitting that 10 to 20 sets per week, repetition range is pretty broad. Provided you get close to failure, hit failure every once in a while could be the final set of each exercise or maybe do one workout where you hit failure on everything but then you don't do it for a few more. Yeah. Again, there, there sounds like there's a lot of play in the system here. Rest ranges anywhere from 30 seconds all the way up to three or four minutes depending on how heavy your training and how close to failure or to failure, maybe even quote unquote beyond failure if there is such a thing. Your training, throwing in negatives and things like that. We didn't get into really high intensity techniques, but people again vary in the extent to which they're, they're pushing the system, but there does seem to be some value to mixing up the rest between set ranges, across exercises and across workouts.

0 (4h 18m 46s):
But you could combine them all in the same workout as what I heard. Yep. And then in terms of progression, it sounds to me like the goal in hypertrophy training is not necessarily to add more weight to the bar, although that's one way one could do it, but that the progression actually can arrive through this really extensive kit of changing the speed of movement, changing the number of sets, adding some volume, maybe changing the split so that you go from a three day week full body workout to more of, of a body parts, one or two body parts per day every other day or two on one off, any number of different variations that are out there.

0 (4h 19m 26s):
Sounds like all of these can and will work provided that people are obeying the general principles of this hypertrophy adaptation inducing protocol that you described. And that they are meeting the necessary but not sufficient variables as well, such as sleep Yep. Nutrition and managing the stress in the rest of their life. Do I have that correctly?

1 (4h 19m 51s):
Yeah, that's really, really good. One more thing I'd like to add is this is a situation for hypertrophy in which there are some exercises that I actually don't think are good ideas. So I wanna make sure we, we included those in the conversation. That's not necessarily the case for strength. You can really do kind of whatever one you want and that is specifically plyometrics. Although in fact if you look at, there's a, a recent review paper came out showing that like pymetrics are effective as well for

0 (4h 20m 18s):
A, it sounds like one can do almost anything as long as it falls within this parameter

1 (4h 20m 22s):
Set. The concepts for few and the methods are many and the methods for atrophy are many, many in general though plyometrics are not my first, second or even like hundredth choice for hypertrophy. They, if they're a part of a total training program and you get some hypertrophy as a result, cool. You're lucky. Not the first place I'm going. The other major category are weightlifting variations so that when I'm saying weightlifting, I mean specifically Olympic weightlifting as in snatch clean and jerk and they're variations. Those are just not a good exercise choice. It's not that they don't work, it's just the risk to benefit ratio starts to fall pretty fast in a, in a negative favor. And so it's just not worth doing sets of 10 of a snatch unless you're in a sport where that's like the competition or whatever.

1 (4h 21m 4s):
But if the goal is simply hypertrophy, choose different exercises than that.

0 (4h 21m 10s):
Great. Now I realize that we are going to do entire episodes related to nutrition, supplementation, recovery, et cetera, but I'd like to just touch on two or three specific topics and questions that come up a lot around the question of hypertrophy specifically and that probably also relate to strength training and training for speed. So I'm gonna ask these in not rapid fire. Sure. But

1 (4h 21m 36s):
I'll give you shorter answers. We'll

0 (4h 21m 37s):
Put it that way. So I'll ask these questions now, but with the caveat that we will get into these topics in much more depth. Yeah. Very soon. The first question is about the use of cold showers and ice baths and cold water exposure, which I know many people use for resilience training to increase their dopamine, which it does and for recovery. But there's also this issue of when one should use cold, that is deliberate cold exposure relative to hypertrophy training specifically. Yeah. And that's because I've heard that if deliberate cold exposure is done too soon after a hypertrophy adaptation inducing workout.

0 (4h 22m 19s):
Yeah. Right. And all those sorts of things we've been talking about that the hypertrophy response can be blunted reduced or eliminated. Is that true? And if so, when could people do deliberate cold exposure while still also including hypertrophy training in their program and still get hypertrophy?

1 (4h 22m 37s):
Great. So you know, I'm a lover of the cold. I, I still have a deep freezer in my house that is filled with water at all times that it's plugged in and, and is a frozen chamber. I still do the old school style

0 (4h 22m 47s):
Of it. Please unplug it before you get in it each

1 (4h 22m 49s):
Time. Oh yes, absolutely. And then don't do it by yourself so that the lid can close on top of you and then we don't see you sort of ever again

0 (4h 22m 56s):
Han the Han solo

1 (4h 22m 57s):
Effect. It's time for me to upgrade and get one of these new fancy ones, but I've been using this for so many years so I love it. Obviously I've been involved with X P T and, and Gabby and Laird and and Brian Mackenzie and these folks. So I've been doing this stuff for a long time. I've, but I don't even know how many hundreds of folks into the ice and done for a lot of reasons. So there are a lot of benefits and we could talk about those later. However, that, that being said, it is very, very true. You do not want to get in the ice post hyper treat training. You wouldn't wanna do that immediately after the workout. You probably don't wanna do it before the workout and you probably don't even wanna do it that same day. It, it's just not worth it. It will blunt hypertrophy. And specifically we've talked earlier about what's driving muscle growth is that signaling cascade through that gene expression, through that muscle protein synthesis, cold exposure blocks that signal, remember adaptation comes from stress.

1 (4h 23m 48s):
You've put in a stressor in now you've blocked that stress. You've literally blocked this signal that tells your body come back and grow larger size. So not a good idea to do it if you're training for some other purposes. And it may be strength, maybe there's an argument there, although maybe not for speed and power, maybe you can get away with it. Endurance may be a separate conversation if you're in season, I have no problem using it immediately after a game. The goal is entirely different. Even if we did a hay purchase fee type of training program, we're not doing it. Try, try to maximize growth in that particular case, our priority for recovery is higher than our priority for muscle growth. So we choose optimization in that category.

1 (4h 24m 28s):
You can only make those choices though when you truly understand what is the goal for the day, the week, the month, the phase of training and really what part of the year you're in. We have that all plotted out for, for all the people we work with. So I know when we want to choose one over the other, it's not a, this is the choice you always make the situation. That's just not how we operate. We need more precision than that. So that being said, we're generally not going to do it. If we want to do a lot of icing during a phase in which we're using a lot of hypertrophy, we're gonna do a couple of things. Number one, we may just not use it. So there are phases in our training where I don't wanna maximize recovery. I'm not gonna give you any tricks here. I'm not gonna do ICE or any of the other methods. We're gonna talk about why, because the whole point is to cause overload.

1 (4h 25m 13s):
That's what's gonna be the stimuli to cause adaptation. If all I'm doing is blocking that stuff, attenuating it, smashing it back down, I'm undercutting myself. I'm choosing to feel a little bit better, to have a little bit better performance right now knowing that's going to compromise the results. I'm going to get 6, 8, 10, 12 weeks from now. Right. So I'm not gonna choose it at all. And the reality of it is, if I really am trying to maximize hypertrophy, I'm probably not doing any ice work during that whole phase. Maybe like my off day. I know that's similar to a, a setup you have like one day a week when I'm not training we'll jump in some ice, maybe even do some hot cold contrast. I I love the xpt protocol. It's, it's, you know, you've probably talked about it before. That's a great setup or, or just not do it at all, right?

1 (4h 25m 55s):
It's just not something we need when we move into another phase of training where we're trying to maximize adaptation or maximize the result and, and get the benefit of that training. Now we're gonna hedge more towards recovery and we're gonna bring in some of these strategies and techniques and not worry about causing the most stimuli there cuz we're trying to attenuate. Cause we're trying to actualize the work we did 6, 8, 10, 12 weeks before.

0 (4h 26m 18s):
What about cold showers? Do those have the same hypertrophy blunting effect? As

1 (4h 26m 22s):
In general? No, in general you can do cold showers, that's not gonna be a problem. You're not gonna be in there very long and you're not gonna get nearly as cold as you will submerge in 30 degree ice water for like that the way that we do it nonetheless. So I have no problem standing in the shower for a couple of minutes using it for other reasons if, if you want to, that's no issue.

0 (4h 26m 42s):
I'd like to talk a little bit about nutrition and supplementation as it relates to hypertrophy. Dr. Lane Norton, who's been a guest on the Hebrew and Lab podcast and we both know throughout a number range related to protein intake on the backdrop of how much protein synthesis can, can occur, buy meal across the day, et cetera. Lot of lot of research done there and some important work by him in particular. And then the value that he threw out was 1.6 grams per kilogram of body weight being the lower end of the range up to, I believe as it was as high as 2.4, maybe even as high as 2.7.

0 (4h 27m 23s):
Yep. Grams of protein per kilogram of body weight per day. That's a pretty broad range, but it's on the higher end of what I think most people think of in terms of protein intake. And then again, some people might already be right there or maybe even above that value. And of course this all depends on whether or not people are omnivore, vegan, meat-based, et cetera. We won't even go there. But assuming people are getting enough protein per day, so somewhere in that range and they are spreading out that protein intake to accommodate the fact that the body can only assimilate a certain amount of protein in any given sitting. What do you like to see people ingest at some point post hypertrophy inducing workout in order to get the protein synthesis advantage, if you will?

0 (4h 28m 15s):
Yeah, that is stimulated by that workout. Earlier you mentioned the, you know, the post training feeding window that, you know, in the nineties and probably earlier people were talking about, oh, you know, within the first 90 minutes you have to get, there's 30 minutes for a while. Oh was it 30 minutes of, excuse me, a certain number of grams of carbohydrate and protein, et cetera. I think now the understanding is that that window is much broader and how broad et cetera is, is still a matter of debate. But when somebody is training specifically for, for hypertrophy, assuming they are getting enough protein from quality sources in their other meals and assuming that their overall macronutrient intake and caloric intake is high enough, that is they have enough of a caloric surplus that they have the, the, the raw materials for for hypertrophy.

0 (4h 29m 2s):
What do you like to see people ingest at some point post-workout in order to facilitate muscle protein synthesis and recovery? And this could include nutrition and supplementation or if you wanna divide those answers out, feel free to do so. Of

1 (4h 29m 16s):
Course. Yeah. Okay great. So ton of work came outta Don Layman's lab was actually Elaine's mentor as well as do Phillips at McMaster. So a ton of work there and we can answer a number of things here. So Lane's numbers that he recommended, also known as about a gram of protein per pound of body weight. It's a great start. Now once you slide below that,

0 (4h 29m 35s):
That's per pound,

1 (4h 29m 36s):
Right? One gram per

0 (4h 29m 37s):
Pound. Right? And earlier we, which is all just to make sure cause we're changing units here. It was 1.6 grams per kilogram of body weight all the way up to, I think it was 2.4, but maybe as high as 2.7. Yeah, grams of protein per kilogram of body weight.

1 (4h 29m 52s):
So 2.2 in that unit would be the same thing, right? So 2.2 grams per kilogram is the same as one gram per pound, right? So depending on which, or you're listening at to this at one of those may be easier than the other for you if you start getting below that number. Now you do start running into questions of protein quality, protein type and protein timing. And this is one of the reasons why I actually fully agree with Lane is just get that number higher than you think and then all those other variables don't matter. If that number is low, then you need to start paying attention to a bunch of other stuff you've added. Now complexity to your program, things you gotta pay attention to just stay high and it doesn't matter. And so you can just leave a lot of those things off the table. That seems to be fairly clear in in the work of some of those gentlemen.

1 (4h 30m 34s):
I just mentioned that as long as you get to that total number, the question about timing and types and quality, it seems to matter a lot less. In fact, Sue's recent work in non-animal based proteins really show that to be fairly clear that those are quite effective. Assuming total protein intake is high enough, the amount of leucine and other amino acids in those acro proteins matter less if the total threshold just super high. So just do that and you're fine. Now the other caveat we have to say here is timing of macronutrients is, seems to be somewhat irrelevant for protein, but that is not the case for carbohydrates. So that timing does matter. Replenishment of muscle glycogen is very specific and you wanna make sure that that is around a lot if you're doing either maintaining training quality or you're sliding into endurance type of work.

1 (4h 31m 21s):
And so nutrient timing does matter with carbohydrates, maybe less so with protein and certainly less so with protein if the total protein ingestion is high enough. So it depends on what we're going after in terms of a training goal and, and where we want to get with all these things. In general, the way that we like to think about this is if you're doing a strength type of work where you're truly targeting that, then a one-to-one post-exercise protein to carbohydrate ratio is generally what we're gonna go after. So this would be something like 35 grams of protein and 35 grams of carbohydrate. It doesn't have to be post, it can be pre or my favorite is actually mid or post, but somewhere in that range, especially if you're training in the morning and you have not consumed anything prior to your workout

0 (4h 32m 5s):
And that's not necessarily eating in the middle of the workout that's drinking calories.

1 (4h 32m 8s):
It's, yeah, yeah, it's gonna be a,

0 (4h 32m 10s):
I have to see someone eating a sandwich on in the gym, although I'm sure it's happened. Yeah, yeah.

1 (4h 32m 15s):
So one to one is that like sort of standard number here, if you're gonna do sort of more of a really hard conditioning workout, that number slides up to something like three or even four to one, which would be carbohydrate to protein ratio. So if we wanna stay at 35 grams of protein, we're gonna go maybe as high as like a hundred or 140 grams of carbohydrate. Again, depending on what type of of training we're sort doing. If you're gonna do a little bit of a combination, then you like a little bit of strength, a little bit of conditioning and kind of a standard workout, which is probably something that a lot of people will do, then you maybe want to go to something like two to one. So you know, 35 grams of protein, 60, 70 grams of carbohydrate. And those are kind of just like rough numbers that you can go by.

0 (4h 32m 58s):
And for pure hypertrophy training, would you like to see people ingest some carbohydrate post-training

1 (4h 33m 3s):
For pure hypertrophy training? I wanna see that as many of those nutrients around the training is generally possible. Now, again, I might change my mind when our fasting study comes out, but as it stands now, there is no advantage to not fueling around the training and there are some known and some other potential advantages to fueling. So I just see no reason to not do it. In fact, most people are generally going to do better. Now, this is not science, this is just my coaching experience and this is with our athletes and all of our non-athletes that we've worked with and do work with, they're just going to be better spreading those meals out generally throughout the day. And they're going to be better if they have those nutrients either pre, mid or post.

1 (4h 33m 47s):
And so they're going to get, even for hypertrophy, they're gonna get something like that one three to one ratio of carbs to protein, personal preference. Some people don't like to eat before they train. Some people have to eat before they train. Some people can't, you know, put in food in their belly immediately after work around that. You can, you can play based on personal preference, but we want that fueling in there because we wanna maximize the potential growth and we want to just get a jumpstart in recovery because we're gonna be training again pretty soon.

0 (4h 34m 14s):
Supplementation is a huge topic and one that we will go into it in great depth in a soon to occur episode, but if you had to pick one supplement that can benefit most everybody, if not everybody, yeah. For their training directed toward strength, power, and hypertrophy, what would that supplement be and how would you like to see people use it? Meaning how much should they take and when should they take it?

1 (4h 34m 42s):
Sure. If you don't count protein and carbohydrates as supplements, they technically are, but we'll just walk outta that,

0 (4h 34m 47s):
Right? Sorry, I, I should be more specific. I'm not referring to non-food form protein and carbohydrates. So powdered protein and powdered powdered carbohydrate, et cetera, technically are supplements. They're highly processed, but they're, but I'm not, include that. I'm, I'm referring to non macronutrient type supplements. Yeah.

1 (4h 35m 8s):
Does testosterone count

0 (4h 35m 11s):
Well in the context of this discussion, it's testosterone that people are manufacturing themselves. Oh,

1 (4h 35m 16s):
Okay. The cheating kind, the endogenous kind. No, I mean creatine is the answer here without question. It is the most well-studied. It is the most effective and it's benefits are robust, meaning they're going to confer positive adaptations across multiple physiological domains. So we can certainly have a very long chat about some of the interesting things that people, in fact, we just had Darren Cando on our Barb Shrugged podcast, and he went into extensive detail about all the benefits of creatine that people have no idea about, including things like bone mineral density, you asked about that earlier. Creatine is actually fairly effective for that, let alone the thing, the benefit in things like cognitive function, decision making, memory, the work that that's being done there for neurological disorders, depression, a whole host of things that, that creatine is being studied for.

1 (4h 36m 10s):
Some of those studies show a lot of benefits, some of it show maybe a little bit, some none, but there's just a lot of things creatine can do. So when we could talk about muscle recovery or muscle hypertrophy, that's where the bulk of the research is and, and it, and it's very effective in terms of type creatine. Monohydrate is still the best one, and that's just because as the largest evidence base, you can maybe make some arguments for some other types, but you're really gonna reach saturation pretty quickly within a matter of weeks. And there at a dosage of anywhere between like three to six grams per day. Now five grams is the very standard number we give. Reality is, I change that number based on size.

1 (4h 36m 50s):
That's just the honest truth. If you're 225 pounds, you're not gonna get the same dosage of creatine as 125 pound girl. That just is like, this is not what we're gonna do. So we may slide that number down a little bit closer to three for the, the smaller girl, boy, it doesn't matter, it's just fe physical size. If you're one of our 275 or 330 pound offensive right tackles in the nfl, you're not gonna get the same dosage as everybody else. So that number's gonna go up to 7, 8, 9, maybe even 10 grams a day on there. So that's just kind of the scale in general. If you want an easy answer, five grams is the standard

0 (4h 37m 22s):
Take after training.

1 (4h 37m 23s):
The timing doesn't matter. Totally irrelevant. Take it in the morning of breakfast, take it at night, take it anytime you want, take it pre. We tend to put it in a lot of people's workout shakes just to make sure they get it in throughout the day, but the timing is irrelevant.

0 (4h 37m 37s):
Great. Well thank you for that very informative answer and I look forward to much more discussion about nutrition and supplementation and recovery and all the rest in the episodes to come. This was incredibly informative. Thank you so very much.

1 (4h 37m 52s):
I appreciate the opportunity. I had a great time doing that. I, I love talking about these things. I also really like talking about what we're gonna get into in our next conversation, which is the physiology of endurance, metabolism and fat loss.

0 (4h 38m 5s):
If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for us or comments or suggestions about topics you'd like us to cover or guests you'd like me to include on the huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comments section on YouTube. We do read all the comments. Please also check out the sponsors mention at the beginning and during today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. I'd also like to inform you about the Huberman Lab podcast free newsletter. It's called the Neural Network Newsletter. And each month the Neural Network Newsletter is sent out and it contains summaries of podcast episodes, specific protocols discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast.

0 (4h 38m 49s):
All in fairly concise format and all completely zero cost. You can sign up up for the Neural Network Newsletter by going to huberman lab.com, go to the menu and click on newsletter. You provide us your email. We do not share it with anybody and as I mentioned before, it's completely zero cost by going to huberman lab.com. You can also go into the menu tab and go to newsletter and see some example newsletters from months past. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion about fitness, exercise, and performance with Dr. Andy Galpin. And as always, thank you for your interest in science.