0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab guest series where I and an expert guest discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today's episode Marks the first in a series with Dr. Andy Galpin. Dr. Andy Galpin is a professor of kinesiology at Cal State University Fullerton and one of the foremost world experts on the science and application and methods to increase strength, speed, endurance, hypertrophy, and various other aspects of fitness, exercise, and sports performance. Across the six episode series, Dr. Andy Galpin pulls from his expertise working with everything from professional athletes to recreational exercisers and teaches us the mechanisms, logic, and specific protocols for how to achieve any of the number of different exercise adaptations that I mentioned a moment ago, ranging from strength to endurance hypertrophy and everything in between.

0 (57s):
We get really far into details, but at all times paying attention to the macroscopic issues that is how to create a program for endurance or strength or hypertrophy or speed, or one that combines all of those. We also talk about supplementation and nutrition and how to maximize recovery for each of the different types of exercise adaptations. During today's episode, Dr. Galpin teaches us how to assess our level of fitness and more generally how to think about fitness so that we can best achieve our fitness, exercise, and performance goals. Dr. Professor Andy Galpin, super excited to have you here. You're such an immense treasure trove of information on physical training and optimizing for specific goals and outcomes with physical exercise.

0 (1m 43s):
I'm curious, however, so many people have different levels of fitness. Some people are professional athletes of course, but most people are not. Many people exercise regularly. Some people are trying to do that more. Some people are doing too much of that. They're over training, they're not recovering enough. If we were to take a step back and each and every one of us ask how fit are we with the word fit, of course being a very broad encompassing word, you know, could encompass endurance, certainly it does strength the ability to run fast, even if for short distances it might even include hypertrophy or directed hypertrophy, trying to balance one's musculature to offset asymmetries, recover from injuries, et cetera.

0 (2m 32s):
How should I or anyone else for that matter, think about their level of fitness? You know, I know my resting heart rate, but what do I do in terms of really assessing whether or not I'm as fit as I could be and should be both forsake of health and performance? And here I'm asking you the question, not as an athlete, but as somebody who's been pretty consistent as an exerciser, but if we were to throw our arms around this question of how do we assess our fitness, what would be sort of the different levels of assessment that we should think about and do

1 (3m 9s):
When it comes to exercise, people generally have two major goals in mind. Goal number one is achieving some sort of appearance, right? This is, I want to be big or want not be too big, or I want to be lean something, right? It doesn't matter what that goal is, but there is an aesthetic component to almost everybody. They wanna look a certain way or not look a certain way. The other one is functionality. So I want to be able to perform a certain way. Now again, that definition differs per person. So I want be better at strength, I want to be better at mobility, I want to be able to have energy throughout the day, whatever it's, so there's some sort of appeal to aesthetic and there's some sort of appeal to functionality. So within both of those categories, we want to be in a position where we can understand where do I need to go with my exercise training so that I can be as fit and as healthy and achieve these goals that I want now as well as be in a position where I can maintain them for a long period of time.

1 (4m 4s):
So this blends both immediate goals. So say you're just interested in squatting a lot of weight, say you're interested in running 5K time, the best you want, it doesn't matter. It blends that with the ability, the desire to have a long wellness span, to be fit throughout life, to achieve all those things for as long as possible. So then the question kind of comes back to saying, well, how do I know which area I need to focus on the most and why am I not achieving these goals or how can I get there more effectively? And if we look at the big picture, we have to understand that there are several major components to physical fitness that are going to be required in all of these categories. And to achieve that, there are a handful of components that have to happen to be able to hit those goals.

1 (4m 48s):
Now they're infinite methods. So the same we actually use here a lot is the methods are many, but the concepts are for you. So what I'd love to do today is over the course of our discussion is hit exactly what those concepts are and then cover a whole bunch of different methods. And we could do that for ours, but we'll cover a number of them for various goals.

0 (5m 6s):
So one of the reasons I went into neuroscience and not into exercise science is because of this thing, neuroplasticity, that nervous system's ability to adapt. But the more time I spend with you and the more I learn from you, I realize that many, if not all of the organ systems of our body have this incredible ability to adapt. And when we're talking about physical exercise, there are incredible adaptations that of course involve the nervous system, but also involve muscle and connective tissue and so many other cell types and tissues. That said, when we talk about fitness, what are the major types of adaptations that underlie this thing that we call fitness?

0 (5m 48s):
And later, I know we're gonna get into how different forms of exercise can trigger different types of adaptations, but what are the, the major adaptations that one can create in their body using exercise

1 (6m 2s):
There? There are many reasons why one should exercise and we could perhaps cover that later in our chats. But the physiological adaptations can be bucketed really in a nine areas. So the very first one is what I call skill or technique. So just learning to move better, more efficiently with a specific position and timing and sequence or whatever that is. This could be running more effectively. This could be practicing a skill like shooting a a ball or an implement swinging a golf club, anything like that. I call that skill development. The second one is speed. This is simply moving at a higher velocity or would they better rate of acceleration. Okay, that's very similar to the next one, which is power and power is speed multiplied by force.

1 (6m 47s):
The next one then of course on top of that is force or strength. Those are really synonymous terms, right? How effectively can you move something? Now this is often confused strength rather as muscular endurance. So what I mean by that is strength truly is a marker of how, what's the maximum thing you can move or it's the maximum amount of force you can produce one time. It's not how many repetitions in a row you can do. That's actually another one of our adaptations called muscular endurance. All right, so that is typically under the order of like say five to 25, maybe 50 repetitions. Think of a classic. How many pushups can you do in a row?

1 (7m 27s):
How many sit-ups can you do in a minute? Like things like that are muscular endurance. Muscular endurance tends to be localized. So this is, you know, specific to just say your triceps and your and your deltoids. It's not a overall cardiovascular endurance marker or anything like that. So that's strength number four. Number five is muscle hypertrophy. And this is the first time now we're talking about an appearance rather than a functional outcome. So you know, moving better, moving faster, moving heavier are indicators of how well you can move. This is the first one that's just simply how big is your muscle? And that's muscle I per your muscle size after that is muscular endurance. So this is how many repetitions you can typically do of a movement.

1 (8m 9s):
So think of how many pushups in a row you can do, how many setups in a minute. You can do things that are typically in like five to 50 repetition sort of range. And it is often, or it is almost always local muscle. So what I mean by that is it is I on a pushup test is, is really how many reps that your triceps and pex and and deltoids can do. It is not a cardiovascular endurance, it is not a global physiological endurance. It's specific to typically one or a few muscle groups at a time. This is why you have to do multiple tests for for sort of every group there. After that, now we've moved into number seven, which is what I call anaerobic capacity.

1 (8m 49s):
This is more synonymous with maximum heart rate and now we're actually looking at, rather than a single movement or muscle group, it is a total physiological limitation. So it is the maximum amount of work you can do in say 30 to 45 seconds, maybe even up to 120 seconds of all out work. Think of your classic interval type of stuff here. So how much work can you do at a maximum rate where you're gonna enter tremendous amounts of global fatigue? The next pass that is maximum aerobic capacity, and this is probably something like in the eight to 15 minute range where you're going to reach probably both a maximum heart rate as well as a true VO two max, which will, we'll talk a lot more about what that is later.

1 (9m 39s):
So that is, is different from the previous one where you can't reach this in a matter of seconds. It simply takes multiple minutes to get to a position to where your VO two max is actually going to be sufficiently challenged or an indicator there. And then the last one, number nine is what I call long duration. And this is just your ability to sustain sub-maximal work for a long period of time with no breaks, no reduction whatsoever. This is often called steady state training or a lot of people just think of this when they think of cardio, but your ability to continue movement without any breaks or change or drop is the last and final adaptation.

0 (10m 16s):
And for long distance steady state, I'm guessing it exceeds 15 minutes because correct, the previous one was eight to 15 minutes or so. What sort of range time ranges are we talking about in terms of this long

1 (10m 31s):
Duration? Well that's actually wonderful. You're gonna be anything past 15 minutes. So really if you look at a a kind of a minimal number there, it's generally 20 minutes of what we're looking for. But a a more typical would be 20 to 60 minutes, but anything past that would still be limited by your long duration endurance. So your ability to sustain work over time.

0 (10m 49s):
Okay. So given that there are nine different major adaptations that can be induced with exercise of specific types, is there any one global test or assessment that people can take or do that allows them to determine what level of ability of fitness they have in each and every one of these nine different categories?

1 (11m 11s):
There are probably dozens or more tests that you can do for each one of those nine categories. And what I would actually like to do is walk you through my favorites for each and giving you both the scientific gold standards. So if you had the ability unlimited resources, what should you go do? As well as some that are, are equipment free, that are cost free, things that anyone can do across the world. In addition to that, I wanna walk you through what those numbers should be. How do you identify if you're really poor in something or if you're great and then if you aren't as good maybe in a category and you want to get better at it, exactly what to do in terms of protocols for how to achieve optimal results in each of those steps.

0 (11m 49s):
So I noticed in your list of the nine different adaptations to exercise that you did not mention fat loss or health promoting benefits, which are two reasons that a lot of people exercise. Was there a specific reason that you did not mention those?

1 (12m 4s):
Absolutely, it's because those things are actually not specific training styles. They are byproducts of these nine. So what I mean by that is if you understand how fat loss occurs, which we can certainly talk about, you'll realize some of these nine protocols are effective for fat loss and some are not. General health is the same thing. When we understand what it actually means to be healthy from a physiological perspective, then the rationale for what to train for is going to determine itself. So what I mean is looking at things like in order to be healthy you have to have sufficient strength, you have to have cardiovascular fitness, you have to have sufficient muscle and et cetera.

1 (12m 46s):
Therefore training for one's health is determined by those restrictions. So for you Andrew, you may need to do more strength training to be healthy. Where me, because I'm strong already, way stronger than you, I may not need to do as much strength training. So our health-based protocols are based on our current status or limitations in physical fitness among these nine areas. So what I would like to do today is to cover a brief history of exercise science and the reason is it's going to explain a lot about why people are not getting the goals in their exercise programs that they want, as well as gives you very specific direction about what to do instead.

0 (13m 27s):
I can't wait hear all the things that I'm doing incorrectly and to have you help me remedy that. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is also separate from Dr. Galvan's teaching and research roles at Cal State Fullerton. It is however part of our desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public.

Momentous (13m 49s):
In keeping with that theme, we'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast. Our first sponsor is Momentus. Momentus makes supplements of the absolute highest quality. The Huberman Lab podcast is proud to be partnering with Momentus for several important reasons. First of all, as I mentioned, their supplements are of extremely high quality. Second of all, their supplements are generally in single ingredient formulations. If you're going to develop a supplementation protocol, you're going to want to focus mainly on using single ingredient formulations. With single ingredient formulations, you can devise the most logical and effective and cost effective supplementation regimen for your goals. In addition, momenta supplement ship internationally, and this is of course important because we realize that many of the Huberman Lab podcast listeners reside outside the United States. If you'd like to try the various supplements mentioned on the Huberman Lab podcast in particular supplements for hormone health, for sleep optimization, for focus, as well as a number of other things including exercise recovery, you can go to Liv Momentus, spelled O U s. So that's liv momentus.com/huberman.

LMNT (14m 48s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by element. Element is an an electrolyte drink that contains the exact ratios of the electrolyte, sodium, magnesium, and potassium to optimize cell functioning for mental and physical performance. Most people realize that hydration is key. We need to ingest enough fluids in order to feel our best and perform our best. But what most people do not realize is that the proper functioning of our cells and nerve cells, neurons in particular requires that sodium, magnesium, and potassium be present in the correct ratios. Now of course people with pre-hypertension and hypertension need to be careful about their sodium intake. But what a lot of people don't realize is that if you drink caffeine, if you exercise, and in particular if you're falling a very clean diet that is not a lot of processed foods, which of course is a good thing, chances are you're not getting enough sodium, potassium and magnesium. To optimize mental and physical performance element contains a science-backed ratio of 1000 milligrams. That's one gram of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium and 60 milligrams of magnesium and no sugar. If you'd like to try Element, you can go to drink element, that's lm nt.com/huberman to get a free element sample pack with your purchase. Again, that's drink element lm nt.com/huberman to claim a free sample pack

Eight Sleep (16m 1s):
today's episode is also brought to us by eight Sleep. Eight Sleep Makes Smart mattress covers with cooling, heating and sleep tracking capacity. I've been using an eight sleep mattress cover for about the last eight months and it has completely transformed my sleep. I'm sleeping about the same amount, but I'm sleeping far deeper and I'm now getting the proper ratios of so-called rapid eye movement or REM sleep and slow wave sleep and waking up feeling far more recovered mentally and physically. The underlying mechanism for all that is very straightforward. I've talked many times before on this podcast and elsewhere about the critical relationship between sleep and body temperature. That is in order to fall asleep at night, your body needs to drop by about one to three degrees in terms of core body temperature and waking up involves a one to three degree increase in core body temperature. With eight sleep mattress covers, you can adjust the temperature of your sleeping environment to be one temperature at the start of the night, a different temperature, the middle of the night, and a different temperature as you approach morning, each of which can place you into the optimal stages of sleep and have you waking up feeling more refreshed than ever. If you'd like to try eight sleep, you can go to eight sleep.com/huberman and check out their pod three cover and save $150 at checkout eight. Sleep. Currently ships in the usa, Canada, United Kingdom select countries in the EU and Australia. Again, that's eight sleep.com/huberman to save $150 at checkout.

1 (17m 20s):
Before we get into how the history of exercise science informs the mistakes that we are all making and how to remedy those mistakes, I'm curious as to whether or not you have any favorite one or two studies that point to a sort of naturally occurring example of how people can become very fit in one area and not another. You know, I'm familiar with seeing endurance athletes that apparently have terrific endurance, but at least to my eye don't look like they are are particularly strong.

0 (17m 51s):
I'm also familiar with seeing individuals that are very, very strong, particularly on social media, but that don't look like they could walk up a flight of stairs, much less run a mile. Do you have any examples of studies in or outside the laboratory that point to that in a concrete way?

1 (18m 6s):
There's a lot to hap to discuss here, but I'll answer it really clear. If you look across the literature, and this is actually back to as early as the mid 1950s, in fact it actually goes back to previous to that, to the Harvard Fatigue lab, 1927 to 1947 area. People actually were advocating at that point a combination of strength training and endurance in

0 (18m 27s):
The

1 (18m 27s):
1920s way back then. In fact actually goes prior to that, the late 1880s, there's scientific evidence back then it became more well developed in the mid 1950s and sixties. In fact, there was the initial stages of what's called the exercises, medicine movement, which is the movement now. But the initial stages of that actually root back to the 1950s. And I could actually go into that whole discussion and, and the story of how that all came about. But that's the health is wealth mantra that came from the 1950s from the scientific community. Then all those, those data points are going to suggest you need a combination of some sort of broad strength training and broad endurance thing. Now, if you have a specific goal five months from now you wanna compete in a race or hit a a certain physique thing, that's fine to focus on one area of training.

1 (19m 14s):
Certainly if you're an athlete that's different. But if you wanna maximize health and and overall functionality throughout time, it needs to be a combination. And to really really highlight this, I can actually talk about a couple of studies that I've done. One of them we actually did in Stockholm, Sweden. So I did this at the Carolin Institute, which you probably are aware of. It's actually one of the founding places of all of exercise physiology generally. It started there, it was called something different back then. But really our entire field came out of Stockholm in the Carolinas Institute and we worked with a whole bunch of cross-country skiers that were in their eighties and nineties. And so they were competitive skiers in the 1940s and fifties and they had been skiing competitively for that entire duration.

1 (19m 56s):
So you're talking 50 to 60 consecutive years of competing. So these are 80 to 90 year olds living alone, unhealthy. And we compared them to a group of individuals here in America who were the same age but were not exercising. And what we wanted to do is to see and kind of look at what are these lifelong endurance individuals? What do they look like when we brought them into the lab, which is by the way, amazing to do a VO two max test on a 92 year old, especially in a language that they don't speak. And you're in a, you can imagine you're doing this in the hospital, right? And you're running people through, this is a cycling test. And so for a VO two max access, you have a mask on your face, you're hooked up to a metabolic cart. So we can collect all the gases that are coming outta your mouth and you're chanting these people on and basically every minute the workload gets harder and harder and harder until you can't complete it.

1 (20m 45s):
And we're doing this in a, in a cardiology center and, and the cardiologists are usually waiting for their heart rate to get like slightly elevated and they stop them cuz they're, you know, 85, 86 years old. And not only are we not stopping them, but we are screaming in their ears. It's like, go, go go. And in Swedish or English in in English, right? And then the, the translator, but it doesn't take a lot of translation when someone's screaming at your face like go, go, go. So we ran them through a whole bunch of VO two max tests and we did the same thing for those folks back here, here in America. And what was incredibly clear from that study was the VO two max, you can think about these numbers and this is what's called relative. So, and the relative terms are milliliters per kilogram per minute.

1 (21m 26s):
And so a standard number is about 18 is what we call the line of independence. So if your VO two max is below 18 milliliters per kilogram per minute, it's very hard for you to live by yourself. So your fitness is so low, you probably are going to need to have somebody living with you or you'll need to be in some sort of assisted living home. So if you are in like VO two max of 20 or 21 or 22, you are not below that line of independence, but you're on that threshold. And so what we found was our folks here in America, the group average was right around that number. So they were living at home by definition. We picked them to be people living by themselves in their eighties and not in a living room, but they didn't have any bandwidth. So if they got a cold or they had anything pop up where they lost a little bit of fitness, they were gonna drop below that line and would probably have to go to some sort of assisted living situation.

1 (22m 15s):
The folks in Stockholm, the the cross-country skiers, the group average was most closer to like 35 to 38 milliliters per kilogram per minute. Now that number is about the VO two max you would find for a normal college male. And so these folks that were literally 80 or 90, if the, you know, the joke, if a sabertooth tiger ran in the room or, or whatever and it chased it down and we all had to run to see who didn't get eaten alive, the, the college men would probably have gotten eaten before the the 90 year olds. And in one case we had a 92 year old individual and I think his VO two max was 38, which was, in our estimation of world record the highest VO two max for somebody over the age of 90.

0 (22m 57s):
May. May I ask what, what is a typical resting heart rate for somebody very fit like these older Swedish cross-country skiers that if somebody has a, this, let's say their number is 35 milliliters per kilogram in this VO two max test, but since most of us don't have access to that kind of equipment, but they, we can measure our pulse rate. Yep. What was a typical resting heart rate? Resting pulse rate?

1 (23m 24s):
Sub 60. Sub 60. Yeah, I mean, and typically that's a good number to go off of for anybody regardless of age. Anytime I see somebody above that, I'm, I'm gonna start asking questions certainly above. Now you'll see in the literature people will say 60 to 80 is normal and I, I don't agree with that at all. If you're up, if you're resting heart rate of 75 beats per minute, there's either something going on or you're not fit.

0 (23m 46s):
How much cross-country skiing were they doing on average in the previous, let's say if we take the previous 20 years since they'd been long time cross-country skiers, divide that by 20 years. Yeah. On average, are these people cross-country skiing five hours a day, two hours a day, an hour a day? Yeah,

1 (24m 3s):
That's actually a good question. I don't remember. It's been many years, but they were not doing it every single day and that the volume would not have shocked you. It was the consistency over 50 years that got them there. Now obviously these people were again world champions and Olympic gold medalists in the 1940s and fifties. So they were elite, they just continued consistently over time. But it wasn't a, a shocking amount of physical fitness. They also didn't go out either way to train hard. They were busy chopping wood, they were busy doing number of other things and then they just happened to do some of these races and ski a long the way. But it wasn't a crazy amount to where you're like, oh, that's great, but I could never hit that number. It was something much more reasonable.

0 (24m 44s):
So is the takeaway to be consistent about getting cardiovascular exercise And we can define yeah, what consistent means in terms of days per week a little bit later and I I know we will. Yeah. What are some other examples? I love these examples of from the real world.

1 (24m 59s):
So here, here's the downside though. So I only told you about the VO two max. What I didn't tell you about is the leg strength and functionality. And that part was no more superior than it was their counterparts who were not exercisers. So what that showed really, really clearly, and many other studies have been done since then that look at the classic, what we call lifelong endurance exercisers. You will see in general their VO two max, they're cardiovascular function, they're resting heart rate, their blood pressure, it will be markedly healthier than folks who don't exercise. It is extraordinarily clear. That type of exercise is very important for chronic disease management, no doubt about it.

1 (25m 40s):
However, it is not sufficient for overall global health because it does almost nothing for leg strength for any other marker of health, which we can talk about what are the things that are actually going to predict mortality morbidity the most. So that was a, a big, a big smashing indication that it's like, hey, this is great, however you're leaving things on the table for your overall health. Now one could argue they're 80 and they they're doing pretty well, but they weren't doing as well in these areas. And so a study we did later actually as a follow up was looking at monos laga twins. So this is actually interesting being a scientist. This is a classic example of one of my graduate students who had been in my lab for probably three or four years and she was in our single biophysiology lab and she's, now you imagine she's in, she's isolating individual muscle fibers from an athlete one by one with the tweezer and she's going to do several thousand individual cells, right?

1 (26m 36s):
So she's, you're down there for hours and, and things happen down there, you kind of lose your mind. And, and she was just kind of going on one day with one of my colleagues and just talking and she's like, oh yeah, my uncle is really, really fit and something or other. And then, oh yeah, he's a twin. And he was like, oh, is he in monga? And she's like, yeah, for

0 (26m 54s):
Those that don't know, monga are identical

1 (26m 56s):
Twins. Yeah, which is interesting. So you basically have, what I'm setting up here is this is the perfect exercise, scientific experiment, monos IUs, identical twins mean the, they have the exact same dna. So an egg was fertilized split and then two humans grew outta that with the exact same dna. And so now we can start answering the question. Well, yeah, okay, what about maybe these cross-country skiers? Maybe they were just genetic freaks, maybe it didn't matter. It's like some people have, well genetics are always a component to it, but how much, well now we have a scenario lining up where it's like, wait a minute, you have models like us to win. So we have a replica of a human being exact same dna. The only differences that we would see in their physiology now would be due to lifestyle circumstances.

1 (27m 38s):
Interesting. So models like us, twin un, your dad and uncle, right? Great. Do they exercise? Well, one of them does. He's a lifelong endurance exercise runner, cyclist, swimmer, iron man, all these things. What about the other one? Nope, he doesn't exercise at all. And at that point, like I wanted to kill my graduate student cuz I'm like, you've been in my lab for three years or more probably. And you've never told me that in your household is the perfect scientific experiment for exercise you could ever create. And like Jesus, the the the look on her face, when my colleague and I were staring at her, she's just like, oh my god. So I'm like, call them right now.

1 (28m 18s):
They're coming in the lab, they'll fly them in from Chicago. I don't care what we have to do. Like we're getting 'em in. And so I wanted to actually, going back to the model that was first developed by the Harvard Fatigue lab, one thing that's interesting about that community is they started off with the concept of trying to examine human performance through a holistic lens. And so it was the antithesis of looking at either organ by organ. So we're going to only look at the cardiovascular system, we're only going to look at skelet muscle. And then we're saying we're looking at this entire picture. And so that model we wanted to carry through in these twins. And I said, all right, I wanna bring them in the lab, but I'm not just going to look at one system. I want to do everything. So we took stool samples, we took blood, we did vertical jump tests, we did maximum strength tests, we did MRIs of muscle mass, we did two max test, we did efficiency stuff.

1 (29m 7s):
We, we did genetic testing, we did an IQ test, we did psychological battery. We wanted to look at everything to figure out of these things, what differ between the twins. And if, so, the second key question there is by how much so can I improve my V two max? Sure, everyone knows that, but how much can it change by 5%, 80%? Like where is the number? And so putting some quantification on this was very important. And so again, we had a another example of a classic endurance only training paradigm compared to a a non act. So this is a, a person who's I think who's a truck driver by vocation, which is, I think actually he drove for a potato chip company, which was even funnier. The, the endurance athlete actually was great because like any endurance people, he had a, he had physical books of all of his training mileage for the last 35 years.

1 (29m 55s):
And we could, we just went through them and we calculated the total amount of miles. He ran his averages, his heart rates per time. We had this unbelievable thing like what races he was in. He had the documentation, he was just totally nuts, right? Like something that endurance people are like shaking their head right now going, oh yeah, I got that too. And everyone,

0 (30m 10s):
Yeah, endurance folks are pretty nerdy.

1 (30m 12s):
Yeah, they're super nerdy, right? So it was great because now we could validate as close as one could to actually how much he ran and, and things like that. So they had about a 35 year discord. They both exercised up through high school. About 18, they stopped doing it and by the time they brought 'em in the lab, they're in their mid fifties. So it was about 35 years of difference. And when we ran them through the testing, if you look at the, the vet measures that were similar to the Sweden study, it was almost identical. The, the, the exercising twin was significantly better at things like a lipid panel, resting heart rate, blood pressure, VO two max. Any of those markers as predicted were weren't much better. What was very interesting though was the things that were in the middle.

1 (30m 54s):
First of all, their total amount of muscle mass was almost identical like to the gram within the margin of error of adexo scan could possibly ever be. The non exerciser though was a little bit fatter. So the difference in actual body weight was explained almost entirely by body fat or non-line tissue, really same sort of deal. So, okay, like no one surprised there that the exerciser was a little bit leaner even though it didn't change sole amount of muscle mass at all. When we looked at some of the more functional tests and we looked at things like muscle quality. So this is a metric you can get from an ultrasound. You can kind of think about this as how much fat is inside the tissue. Which is sometimes an advantage for endurance athlete to have a little bit more of an what are called intramuscular triglycerides because it's a fuel directly in the tissue.

1 (31m 40s):
But in general, the exercise or the, the muscle quality was not in favor of the exerciser. If you looked at the performance testing and if you looked at strength, it favored the non exerciser. And so now again, we have the same finding we saw in our Sweden study but in identical twins. And so it really, really highlighted the fact that if you want to move forward with optimal health, simply picking one silo is not gonna get you there.

0 (32m 10s):
One silo meaning just running, just cycling, right? Does this mean that the twin that did not exercise could jump higher or win an arm wrestling competition? Not that that's a vital thing to be able to do, but just in terms of measuring strength, you know, it's our isometric strength. Was the non exercising twin stronger or at least as strong as their exercising

1 (32m 33s):
Twin? Yes. Particularly in grip strength. Yep. And, and any of the measures like the vertical jump leg extension power and a number of things, they often favor the non exerciser, which you're still a little bit of a chicken and egg. You don't know if necessarily the endurance training reduced that other twin's strength or it doesn't even really matter per se. I think the highlight of it is can you change some of these metrics of yoti max? Yeah, not even close. These things are very responsive regardless of your genetics. Your genetics will give you a starting place very clearly. Even the non exerciser was a pretty healthy guy. So they were in a good spot. His mid fifties doesn't exercise, doesn't really pay attention to his diet at all. And he was in a pretty good shape.

1 (33m 16s):
However, if you want to actually move progress and move for high functionality, you have to do something besides just run, right? Just distance run. Now I could say the same thing for strength training. That alone, I, I, cause I don't wanna make this seem like I'm saying endurance exercises. It worked. And both case, both these studies, those folks were much better off in metrics that are incredibly important to mortality. How long you're going to live V two max, et cetera. It's just not gonna get there. In terms of strength, we took a look at muscle fiber physiology as well, which is very interesting. So what I mean is there's generally two types of muscle fibers, fast twitch and slow twitch.

1 (33m 59s):
And one of the things that there's a hallmark of aging is a selective reduction in fast twitch fibers. And that's because it's difficult to activate them unless you're doing high force activities, you're gonna activate slow twitch fibers doing almost any activity of daily living. And so they stay around fast twitch fibers unless you're doing something of high force or going not be used and they're not gonna be kept around. And that's a problem because when you look at things like the need for leg strength through aging, the ability to catch yourself from a fall, these things are incredibly important. If you don't have fast fibers, you don't have the speed to get your foot out in front of you on time and you don't have the ecentric strength to stop the fall from happening. And so if you look across, again, the aging literature, they're, they're very clear about the importance of maintaining strength and, and fast fibers over time.

1 (34m 47s):
So we know that this is an important distinction here overall. And people will often talk about, okay, how much of that is genetically determined? Can I change my fiber type? And the answer there is, is resoundingly yes. And can I change it with exercise? And the answer is absolutely you can. And then the next question is how much? So now again, we're gonna see an order of magnitude in general without going too far down a, an area that maybe we can say for, for later. Each one of your muscles in your body has a different percentage of fast twitch and slow twitch. For example, your calf, if you look at your soleus, which is kinda the smaller one that goes in the back, that's generally mostly slow twitch, typically 80% or so slow twitch the gas rock, which is the other one right next to it.

1 (35m 32s):
So if you were to point your toe next to your face in that part, that kind of flexes out in the middle pops out, that's your gas truck, that is almost the inverse. So it's generally 80% fast twitch, maybe 20% slow twitch. Generally anything anti postural or postural rather anti-gravity, spinal erectus, things that are meant to keep you up or moving all day are going to be slow twitch. And things like your hamstrings, which are for explosion, are gonna be fast twitch. Well, we biopsy the quad in these individuals and in that muscle it's generally about 50 50. Fast twitch, slow twitch as a, as a really broad number. Well one of the things that we found was in the non exerciser, it was almost textbook what you would predict.

1 (36m 12s):
It was about 50% or so slow twitch, a little bit of percentage of fast twitch. And then about 20% of, what are these called hybrid fibers, which are a hallmark of inactivity. Alright, great. In the exerciser it was about 95% slow twitch. And so it's extremely clear, again, I don't know if maybe their set point was a little bit higher towards that and the non exerciser de, you know, devolved down to his place or the other one. But it doesn't matter. I mean you're going from 40% slow twitch in one case to 95% slow twitch. In another case it shows you that the, the limits of physiological adaptation are darn near boundless, given enough exposure. And in this case 35 years of extremely consistent training and his muscle morphology was completely different than his identical twin with the exact same dna.

0 (37m 2s):
Those are two beautiful examples of people doing endurance work for a number of years and what that gives them in terms of benefits and functionality. Has the opposite experiment been done or observed where somebody just weight lifted or just sprinted for a number of years? I don't know that there's a identical twin control. That's a little

1 (37m 26s):
Too, no, I wish we had a third

0 (37m 27s):
Twin too. Too much Shara, right? Triplets. Okay, so triplets out there, if you're exercising in different ways or people who have triplets, maybe you assign one kid to be a runner, one kid to be a weight lifter and the other one to be sedentary. Please don't do experiments like that. But the expectation as I understand it would be that the person that sprints or that does heavy squats, explosive work, would then have more fast twitch muscle fibers in their quad and their non exercising counterpart would have fewer that that would make sense. But what happens if you assess the, in the endurance level in somebody who's just done strength training or just sprinted?

1 (38m 8s):
Yep. So we don't have those data specifically. There's, we're actually just starting to have studies come out on lifelong strength trainers and there's actually a very good reason for this, which is a whole story we can get into. But the, the quick answer is we don't have a lot of people who've been lifting weights for 30 or plus years. We have a whole swath of people who've been doing endurance training for that

0 (38m 32s):
Long. Is that because fewer people have been weight training or are the weight trainer is all dead?

1 (38m 36s):
You gotta go back to the 19 53, 19 54. You had two major things happen that changed the entire course of exercise physiology and exercise science and really exercise as we know it. It's important to understand the history of our field. A lot of the questions I get are based on false assumptions of what exercise can and can't do. As an example, we questions like momentum. Should I use momentum or, or that's cheating, right? Or it doesn't work, it compromises my results. It's actually totally untrue. There are excellent reasons when you should use momentum when you lift. There are reasons when you should not. It is sometimes very beneficial to go fast with the exercise. Repetition sometimes very slow and controlled is better.

1 (39m 19s):
Any question I get, in fact I'm very infamous for always responding with, it depends, the reason I say it depends is it depends on the goal. When you're training for speed or power or muscular endurance, the answer to some of these very common question differs. What people fail to realize is they think they're asking the right question because they don't understand this history. What's being planted in your brain subconsciously is driving that question and it's not necessarily the right one. So if we walk through that a little bit, you'll see what that field has led to you. Why you think certain things matter when they actually don't or maybe your assumptions are incorrect. And then exactly what to do about them.

AG1 (39m 59s):
I'd like to take a brief break and acknowledge our sponsor. Athletic Greens. Athletic Greens is a vitamin mineral probiotic and adaptogen drink designed to help you meet all of your foundational nutritional needs. I've been taking Athletic Greens daily since 2012, so I'm delighted that they're a sponsor of this podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens, and the reason I still take Athletic Greens once or twice a day, is that it helps me meet all of my foundational nutritional needs. That is, it covers my vitamins, my minerals, and the probiotics are especially important to me. Athletic Greens also contains adaptogens, which are critical for recovering from stress, from exercise, from work or just general life. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs and they'll give you year supply of vitamin D three K two. Again, if you'd like to try Athletic Greens, go to athletic greens.com/huberman to claim the special offer.

1 (40m 51s):
So in 19 53, 19 54, you had Roger Banister breaking the four minute mile. So sub four minute file. And then you also had Sir Edmond Hillary and then his Sherpa Norge Summit Everest in the same basically two year span that exact same year after. That was a formation of what's called the American College of Sports Medicine. Now that is still around today. It is the preeminent group for this exercises medicine. So if you're interested in things like exercise for obesity, prevention for cancer, treatment, for, for things like that, it's not really sports medicine, it's more for clinical exercise. That's the place to go. American College of Sports Medicine. So we have this launching of both a ton of people wanting to start doing endurance exercise and start swimming and cycling and running.

1 (41m 35s):
And then you have a launch of people coming off of the back of the Harvard Fatigue Lab. So the fatigue lab actually shut down in 1947. So you have these people interested in physical fitness, but nowhere to go. Well all those people left the Harvard Fatigue Lab and started their own labs, their places. So you've launched the careers of people like Dave Costal and and and John Halk and some of these very famous exercise physiologists. And they start building laboratories. And we start for the first time ever studying the science of exercise. So years go by and these people happen the 1960s, the 1970s is what we call the runners. Boom. So people start the, if you, in fact if you look at the numbers of people who are doing marathons, it explodes through these two decades spans, right?

1 (42m 19s):
Because it's like the, we could do these endurance feats. Notice both of those feats were endurance, right? Running short term as well as going over there. No one has thought anything about strength training and here's why. In the late 1880s, there was a very famous physician named George Winship, I think was his name, who was a big proponent of strength training. Well, he died like in the age of 50 something of a heart attack. And that terrified people of strength training for 70 years because they're like, whoa, whoa, whoa, that stuff will kill you. Cuz he was a doctor, he was trying, he was running around the country doing these exhibitions and purporting it and then he died

0 (42m 52s):
And sort of like Atkins,

1 (42m 54s):
A hundred

0 (42m 55s):
Percent dying. Although some people say he died of a heart attack, other people said he fell through the ice into cold water. That's debated. But the fact that a, a heavy proponent of a given nutrition plan dies suddenly. Yep. Not good for business.

1 (43m 10s):
So now the little storm is brewing 1940s, and I'm going back a little bit, but bear with me for a second. There's a guy named Peter Carper and he is a, a, a scientist out of Springfield, like the decorated physical education pe like that's a legendary play Springville college. And he is anti strength training for a lot of the same reasons. And his entire career talked about no do this. He's the one that launched these ideas. That strength training will make you lose flexibility. It will be bad for kids. Like all these things that we know now are clearly not true. He's proponent of these things. And there's a show that happened in his at Springfield College and a guy named Bob York.

1 (43m 51s):
And if you york barbell that's still around today is going around the country and and putting on these exhibitions. They come to Springfield and it's sort of like a, a new aged like social media thing where it's like the students know what's about to happen because Caric shows up to this event and everyone knows he hates strength training and everyone is like waiting for it to end just to see what he's gonna say. So this whole exhibition goes on and these people are doing, now you gotta remember back in the time, like body building, weightlifting, power lifting strength, strong man, it's like all the same thing. There's no differentiation yet and it finishes and car it stands up and like the crowd goes silent and he just asks one question and he just points to one of the guys and says, scratch your back.

1 (44m 32s):
And now he's just assuming and waiting for the guy to be like, ah, and not be able to put his hand behind his head. And I think he pointed to John Gimmick, who's like a famous bodybuilder and he reached back and scratched his back, no problem. And then they proceeded to grab two dumbbells, I think they were 50 pound dumbbells and do a back flip standing back flip with both in each chant. They started doing the splits on stage and they start going, performing all kinds of physical function tests. And, and Caric is stunned. He's like, holy shit has nothing to say. He leaves there and his whole life has changed. All these things he was claiming were shown in his face to be false, he does a 180 on his career. He starts running study after study on strength training and starts finding immediately there are no detriments to strength training in terms of like global health, right?

1 (45m 16s):
Of course you can do it wrong and things like that. And in fact, here comes a whole bunch of benefits. So through the 1950s while this thing's going on with the endurance folks, no one's still strength training because there's no, there's no record to see, there's no American College of Sports medicine. There's no societies, there's no science, and we're not sure it's safe. And meanwhile, car Fitch is just hammering study after study after study showing you it's safe, it's safe, it's safe, but it hasn't picked up yet. And then everything changed in 1977. Thank you Arnold Schwarzenegger, he came out with the trifold, he hit you with pumping iron, which I know you know that movie, right? Pumping, pumping Iron.

0 (45m 51s):
It's an interesting movie even for those not interested in body building, it's a very interesting movie because it really gives a window into not just him, but the way in which weight training started to show up as a regular practice. You know, when I was growing up, the only people weight trained were people preparing for football bodybuilders who basically didn't exist in the town where I grew up. And the only people who did yoga were like, Yogi's doing Bikram. Right? But now you drive through any major American city or European city and there're these yoga studios, there's gyms with free weights. Yep. Arnold Schwarzenegger is largely responsible, I think for, for initiating that that shift.

1 (46m 32s):
Yep. He, cuz he hit, think about it, he hit us with pumping iron Conan and then the Terminator almost in back to back like very close within years. So you've got this whole cascade of the seventies of people running, cycling, and swimming. Now science is starting to come out that it's not dangerous and maybe actually some benefit. And then boom, not only is it not bad for you, it can make you into a real world superhero. I mean, think about the psychology of a, of a child growing up watching somebody like Conan think about what Batman looked like in the 1950s and sixties. Right? And then boom, I can look like that. Now, not everyone wants to look like Arnold, but you see, like, you see the power that can land in people.

1 (47m 14s):
No one had ever seen or thought you can make your body transform like that. You could maybe be born like that, but no chance That's within the grasp of all of you.

0 (47m 23s):
When I was a kid growing up, one of my favorite books was the Guinness Book of Worlds records. Yeah. I still have images in my mind of the, the coldest animal, you know, the Yeah, sure. The longest lifespan, et cetera. Sure. You know, and there was a picture in there of Arnold Schwarzenegger, and you know what his record was? It said perfectly developed man. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Which is, as you point out, that isn't the physique that most people aspire to. It doesn't matter though. But it really, i it did inspire this, this shift. The other thing about resistance training that I think has a certain allure for some people, men and women, is that it's one of the few forms of exercise that because of the enhanced blood flow to the muscle that occurs during the training, the so-called pump.

0 (48m 5s):
Yep. It gives you a transient but somewhat real window into what your results will be. A hundred percent. You know, when you run and you're gasping for air, you don't get the, you aren't experiencing what it's like to be faster than you are that day. That's correct. But when you wait train, you get an aesthetic picture into how your functionality and aesthetic will change. Yeah. It disappears a few hours later Sure. As the, the so-called pump sub subsides. Yeah. But it's a very interesting form of exercise in that way. It's almost as if you go in to learn a language and during the process of learning for brief moments, you're actually fluent and then it gets taken away. Yeah. Yeah. It sort of puts the dopamine carrot out in front of you. Yeah. This is just me hypothesizing as to why weight training might have taken off the way that

1 (48m 45s):
It did. Yeah. I mean, it's like if you got paid every hour on the hour when you're working, and then at the end of the day, like they take the money back, but you still, like, as the time clock is going on in your day, you're looking up and you're just seeing while you're watching your bank account grow in real life, like you can see why it's so addicting to those folks. So to finish the story here, what, going back to your actual question to answer it, this is happening in the late seventies, early eighties. And so now Joe Weeder, all these gyms, they're exploding because people wanna look like that. Or if they have, they realize they have the chance to change how they physically look. That had never been a reality before.

0 (49m 19s):
You could mostly men at that point, I'm, I'm

1 (49m 21s):
Guessing almost exclusively Yep. For a large number of reasons, cultural acceptance, et cetera. Even with endurance stuff, you could get fitter and run faster, and that's better. But it just wasn't going to change how you looked unless you were losing fat. Now you can change how you look, which is so incredibly addicting. Fact, there's a, a very famous quote, I think it was actually Joe Wieder who said, show me one man who wants to be strong, and I'll show you 10 who wanna look strong, right? It's like, that's very, very powerful, right? There's, there's a whole, like, there's a whole, there's tons of this history I can go into, which is sort of explaining to you, but now you're, now you're into the mid eighties and you have what I call my generation. So you have my generation who fall in love with strength training in the 18, in the, in 1980s and nineties.

1 (50m 2s):
But there's really no scientific field for it. It's not really come about yet. The science of endurance and exercise physiology is now humming along at a massive rate because these people came up in the seventies and eighties and they're 5, 10, 15 years in their career. They're producing, they're gen, they're generating graduate students, they're starting their own labs. And the exercise physiology still to this day is 80% endurance steady state stuff. Almost exclusively. Well now, my my generation, you love, you love sports, you love lifting, you love all these things, and now what we see happen is the Chicago bulls. Michael Jordan starts picking up strength training. Ooh, that's in, that's on tv. He's on sports center in the mid 1990s, lifting weights. And we go back actually to the late 1970s and I'm, I'm not sure if you're a football fan, but any football fan will recognize the Nebraska Cornhuskers in the 1970s and eighties changed how football's played.

1 (50m 52s):
Well, the reason is because they started strength training and they started doing it with a guy named Boyd Epley, who was the founder of the NS C A. So the National Strength Conditioning Association is formed in the late 1970s as well. So just like A C S M was developed the year after those two events happened. 1978, the year after Arnold comes out, boom, NSCA is formed. And now you have a scientific organization dedicated to strength and conditioning. You've got NFL strength conditioning coaches that are starting to come on board. You've got scientists that are starting to come into lap and strength and conditioning becomes a scientific field. Well, everything swings now from an exercise perspective into body building. And so almost all of the things, in fact, we were sort of talking before, I could run a whole bunch of tricks on you and I could ask you a whole bunch of questions about things that you think are absolute standards or guaranteed about training.

1 (51m 44s):
I'm supposed to do this. I'm never supposed to do that.

0 (51m 46s):
For instance,

1 (51m 47s):
For instance, is it okay to train a muscle group on back to back days? Most people are at home thinking, no, you're not supposed to train a muscle group.

0 (51m 55s):
It needs to recover.

1 (51m 56s):
And that's total nonsense, right? Other things like body part split training, right? Training one muscle group per day. Other things like cardio, endurance training, influencing, will it ruin my gains for my lift? All of these things are on at a, a base of assumptions that come from body building. Now, that's a fantastic world, but because everything started in the late 1970s as body building in terms of basically strength training, was that weightlifting and power lifting were not at all around, right? They were, but nobody cared. Again, show me someone who wants to be strong. I'll show you 10 who wanna look strong. The physique thing just dominated. And we're, we're not getting out of that yet.

1 (52m 38s):
We're not out all the way out of it. We're starting to though, because here's why people started to realize this. This body building thing is fantastic. I can change my physique, I'm getting better, but damn, these workouts take an hour and a half, two hours, and I'm gonna spend that whole time on one or two body parts, which means I'm gonna have to lift six days a week. And I'm gonna have to do that consistently right now. All of a sudden, boom, two hours on my, on my elbow flexors, damn, my elbow's starting to hurt. And

0 (53m 6s):
Yet my understanding is that it doesn't really require two hours a day. Not at all the training in order to get benefits, even just for hypertrophy.

1 (53m 15s):
Totally. But, but a lot of the times you're gonna have to get some amount of time in because you're spending so much isolation. So we've gone away from training movement. Running is a movement. Cycling is a movement. Training. My biceps is a muscle or muscle group training. My hamstrings are a muscle group. That's not a human movement. So we've done a 180 in terms of selecting the exercises from movement based prescription to now muscle group based training. So when you're isolating muscle groups, that means a whole chunk of your body is really not doing much throughout the day. So what happens if you're doing, say legs on Monday and you miss Monday cuz you're on a flight now your legs have to wait a whole nother week, right?

1 (53m 57s):
That's, there's solution to that. But, so this starts become problematic. People start getting beat up. People start realizing, I actually don't feel that great. I'm not super fit. I'm sweating just walking up the stairs. I'm out of breath. Why? Because all that training, you've done nothing for your cardiovascular fitness. You've done nothing to improve heart rate, oxygenation, blood flow. And so that paradigm swing way too hard into the exercising, especially lifting weights is single joint, often machine, often slow, often high volume isolation stuff. And that left a giant opening of people going, well wait a minute, what if you could get in the gym? I could promise you the same or better results in under 30 minutes.

1 (54m 38s):
And in fact you also feel better, you'll lose more weight. And that opened up group exercise classes, kettlebell stuff, CrossFit type of stuff, circuit training. Because you can come in, you won't get so beat up cuz the volume's lower. The time is much lower. You get multiple adaptations at the same time. Great. The problem with that though, fast forward 10 years, is it started burying people because you've now deemphasized movement quality and you've overemphasized scores. Right? So this is a classic example. If you go and you watch pumping iron, you'll see, or any bodybuilder, you'll see if they're doing a bicep crew, they don't even really pay attention to the rep range. They don't really pay attention to the load.

1 (55m 19s):
They're looking at their muscle. They're trying to figure out how do I get that thing to fire? They're squeezing, they're flexing, they're posing at the end of every set. They're trying to figure out, am I getting enough pump? It is exclusively founded on exercise quality. The rep ranges, the numbers almost irrelevant when you go to the other model. Exercise technique doesn't matter. Just get the most amount of weight up or the amount of reps or the fastest time, et cetera, et cetera. High intense

0 (55m 43s):
Should be CrossFit. I've walked past some CrossFits. You guys have done two CrossFit.

1 (55m 46s):
I don't wanna get sued. So you said CrossFit. I didn't

0 (55m 49s):
Oh, oh no, I, I enjoyed them. I definitely felt like I was working hard. I, oh you will. I observed a lot of people in very close proximity doing Olympic lifts and doing Kip. That's where you kick your legs, folks say, you know, sort of like bucking and kip type pull-ups. No, I, I enjoyed it. It wasn't for me for the long term. Sure. But it did seem that there was a lot of ballistic movement. Yeah. In close proximity to other people. So the hazard to me seemed more about that than the actual movements.

1 (56m 19s):
Well again, the, the point I'm setting up here is that was actually a really brilliant solution for a lot of the problems. The classic body building hypertrophy introduced. So it got away from isolation movements and got people doing big movements which are more effective, generally better. It got people doing things fast and explosive. That's more athletic, that is more important for longevity. It solved a lot of the problems. Joint health wasn't getting crashed. The issue they went with is they just pushed the pace on score rather than quality. They pushed the pace on how many people can be in here at the same time. So now you're doing higher risk movements, higher intensity, higher fatigue and with a total, not that they don't care about technique, but it's not the thing that they're most concerned about.

1 (57m 3s):
It's getting the number and the thing done. They solved the time issue though you can get tremendous results in three days a week under 45 minutes each session, et cetera. Burn people out though way too much. High intensity way too often. And the other problems, safety concerns, all kinds of orthopedic issues and other stuff.

0 (57m 22s):
Can I interrupt you for a moment and just ask a question as we go through this arc of the history of why endurance training predominated or strength training or body building type training or CrossFit type training. Cuz I think this is fascinating and I know we're about to arrive at where we are today. Yeah. And what the future looks like for, for people and what they should focus on and do. At what point, if any, do you think resistance training started to become adopted by women? You know, there was no equivalent of Arnold Schwarzenegger. There was Linda Hamilton and the Terminator. Yeah. There are some impressive physiques certainly on female actresses and athletes.

0 (58m 4s):
The Williams sisters, you know, very impressive musculature and physiques and of course their tennis playing speaks for itself. Has that happened yet? I mean, what I mean is, do you think since you work with both men and women Yep. Do you think that most women understand that weight training done properly is going to be extremely beneficial for them, maybe even especially for them in terms of offsetting bone density loss and things of that sort? Or are we still waiting for the stim, the popular stimulus for getting e you know, 80% of of young women thinking I want to lift weights.

1 (58m 46s):
Yeah. Hard for me to answer cuz I'm not like, I'm not a woman right now. I have a daughter. She's four. So, we'll, we'll see. What I can say is, is I've probably worked with, I don't know how many professional athletes in total A lot. I've worked with them, probably 14 professional sports. I've worked with Cy Young winners, MVPs, like the whole, all all the credentials, right? I bet 35, 40% of the athletes I've worked with are female. So I've worked with Olympic gold medalists, I've worked with a bronze medalist in multiple sports. I've worked with the most decorated power lifter, you know, of all time. So in a number of these areas, fighters, world championship, all these things. For me, I, I feel like that burst has already happened.

1 (59m 28s):
My students, if you look at my classroom, I don't know what the numbers are, but there is no small number of females in exercise science and exercise physiology. If you look at our laboratories, that's one thing you will see. There are very few female exercise scientists. There are very few female strength conditioning coaches. But that number is, is, is coming down at a, at a astronomical rate. You, you have people that are being hired in every sport. You, you pick the nfl, you pick major league baseball. Every, every few months we're hearing first female hired for this, first female hired for that the Yankees. Rachel, Rachel Blks, fantastic.

0 (1h 0m 6s):
You know? Yeah, she's, yeah, Rachel's been out to my lab. She's terrific.

1 (1h 0m 9s):
Yeah, yeah. Oh yeah, that's, she's fantastic. I mean, she's now being hired as a, I think she's a hitting coach now, actual sport coach. She, she's gonna be a gm, right? That's is her goal. She's a terminator. So that, that's already happening. And my students that are coming through our program are getting placed in these roles. They haven't gotten through yet a lot in terms of being an actual scientist, but they're getting there. Sports scientists in the MBA are being hired females in terms of like big data collection, sports science and tech will cover, you know, and another discussion. But I think it's happening whether or not the, the cultural and social, I can't speak to that, any of the equation. What I can speak to though is, one of the things I think is, is most fun coming forward scientifically is, you know, a number of years ago NIH came back, came through with their mandates of saying it's no longer acceptable to exclude women from scientific research.

1 (1h 1m 0s):
Right? Cuz we just did that for decades.

0 (1h 1m 3s):
Well, what happened, just to fill this in, cuz I think it's worth noting, is that for many years, studies even on rodents Yeah. Were mainly carried out on male rodents because the assumption, and the assumption turned out to be wrong. But the assumption was that the physiology of female rodents, because they don't have a menstrual cycle, it's not 28 days. They have an Astra cycle. It's four days or a different type of cycle that, that would somehow disrupt the data. Turns out that's entirely wrong. Now it's actually required when you sit on a grant study panel, which are the people who evaluate grants, you, they ask, they literally say, did they meet the criteria for sex as a biological variable? Here we're talking about sex as the verb.

0 (1h 1m 44s):
We're talking about sex as biological sex. And if you don't say yes, that's a strong hit against the grant. Yeah. And if you say yes, then it checks off that box. So it's now required that both male and female rodents and humans be studied in a given study. Unless the study is specifically geared toward understanding that only exists in one one or the other populations reproductive such as studies, menopause for instance. Yeah, totally. Menstrual cycle menopause for instance. Yeah. But no, this is extremely important. I'm excited to hear that.

1 (1h 2m 14s):
So where, where I was gonna go with that is actually, so that was step one, which is cool, you gotta include 'em where we haven't gotten to yet. But I, I've seen more and more grant applications come through for this. It's just the funding hasn't hit yet, which is, it's one thing to, in, to let women be in the same studies. That's great. It's another thing though, to start performing high performance research specifically for female questions. That has not happened yet. And that's just like a funding issue, right? We haven't gotten money yet. People aren't, aren't supporting that. We don't get a lot of financial support for sports science. But we ha can't track down the money yet of someone going, me going, I wanna do a study in female athletes that answers female athlete questions. These won't help men. These are questions specific to the female.

1 (1h 2m 54s):
That's the next step, right? That's where we gotta get to. So we can say maybe we should do things differently around training and recovery or, or we shouldn't, or it doesn't matter. There, there's some, there's a handful of not lower quality, but like some studies, I don't love them yet. There just needs to be a tunnel work. Birth control is a very good example, right? We, the, the information for women at female athletes or even just like hard exercises. You don't have to be a competitive athlete around what is birth control doing, what types, how should I manage that? What conversations should I be having with my doctor? Almost nothing. Like women have nothing to go on for high performance stuff. So what if I'm trying to compete in an event or, or run a raise how like all those types of questions should be answered.

1 (1h 3m 41s):
Normative value, normative data, performance testing, like it's just not there on the female. So that's an area I, I think like if somebody really wanted to make a change that the scientists wanna do it. I know it. I, I've talked to so many in our field that would really love to explore it because it's getting there. The, the, like I said, the coaching side is getting there, they're seeing it, they're hiring these people. I'm seeing it in my students. You know, my, my followings is not all men. Like it's a very large percentage of females. And all I do is post about exercise science. You know, like this is all I do. So,

0 (1h 4m 11s):
Well this podcast is very, we know very clearly the audience is 50% women, 50% men. That's right. Which is great.

1 (1h 4m 19s):
So just to jump back on our history discussion and to finish that point of where we're at now and where I think we're going to go or should go. So we walked through the body building, kind of running everything and people walking into a gym. Anytime they lift weights, they're, they're making all of their choices based in the assumption that maximizing muscle size is the goal. And clearly that's not the case. There are other adaptations you may be after. So we talked about how that had problems and then we talked about how some of these other forms of exercise filled those gaps and then what problems those things introduced. Well, I think we're actually at a point where that pendulum is kind of slowly shifting into the middle. What I mean by that is if you wanna maximize muscle strength, we look towards the power lifting community.

1 (1h 5m 3s):
If you wanna maximize muscle power, we're gonna look to the weightlifting community. If you wanna look for muscular endurance or well-roundedness, maybe we look into the CrossFit communities and some of these obstacle course races or functionality things. So what we can do now is generate protocols that get us the exact adaptations we want and not ones we don't want. Because we can look back at each of these different styles of training and pick and choose optimal protocols or combinations for them. So somebody simply wants to get healthy, like we talked about when we listed the nine adaptations and I mentioned health wasn't one of them. That's because what determines your health versus what determines my optimal health differs. So if I need more hypertrophy, I can look towards body building concepts.

1 (1h 5m 46s):
But if I have enough, or maybe for personal reasons, I decide I have too much or I don't wanna add any more, then I can say, Hey, how can I get stronger without getting bigger? And boom, I look towards power lifting concepts. How can I get more powerful? How can I get faster? But I don't, you know, again, wanna lose fat. Okay, great. Or if I want physique changes. So we have all these different areas we can pick and choose from that, have expertise in specific adaptations and develop ourselves perfect protocols based on that information.

Inside Tracker (1h 6m 16s):
I'd like to take a brief break to acknowledge our sponsor Inside Tracker. Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health and wellbeing can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. One issue with a lot of blood tests and DNA tests out there, however, is that you get information back about various levels of lipids and hormones and metabolic factors, et cetera, but you don't know what to do with that information. Inside Tracker makes knowing what to do with all that information. Exceedingly easy. They have a personalized platform that lets you see what your specific numbers are, of course, but then also what sorts of behavioral dos and don'ts, what sorts of nutritional changes, what sorts of supplementation would allow you to bring those levels into the ranges that are optimal for you. If you'd like to try inside Tracker, you can visit inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off any of inside trackers plans. Again, that's inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off.

1 (1h 7m 19s):
So with the understanding in mind as to how we all myself included, arrived at such lopsided fitness, too much endurance, not enough strength, too much strength, not enough endurance, and it's really hard to imagine that anyone's perfect in this regard. Can you walk us through the nine different adaptations that you mentioned earlier and give us a way to assess our level of ability or our level of adaptation in each of those nine? All right, the very first one we wanna talk about is, is movement skill. Now, set aside sport specific, so I'm not gonna give you an assessment for optimal golf technique swing. Is this really about human movement so that you stay injury free and, and you can continue to train for as long as possible.

1 (1h 8m 3s):
So what are the minimum requirements? Now, if you can have access to a highly qualified physical therapist or movement specialist, that's the best route, right? Go to them, have them identify all of your, your movement patterns, overhead, pressing, squatting, running, all these things. That's your gold standard. If you wanna do it yourself though, here's a very simple four step solution. So the way that I teaches is I go joint by joint. And so I, I think this just as the major ones, your shoulder, your elbow, your low back, hip, knee and ankle. Okay? Now what you can do is do a representative movement for you. So if you bench a lot, use the bench. If you do pull-ups, use the pull-up.

1 (1h 8m 45s):
If you squat, do that. I would recommend doing an upper body press, an upper body pull, a lower body press, lower body pull. An example would be a pushup, a pull-up or a bent row, a squat, and then a deadlift. That would be a very, very well-rounded approach. What you're going to do is do that movement and I, and I would record it for yourself and and record a frontal view and a side view, probably do three to 10 repetitions per angle. Okay? Slow and uncontrolled. You don't need any body weight. What you wanna do is move and you wanna look for four key things at every joint. All right? So again, imagine I'm doing a squat, I'm gonna do a squat and I'm gonna focus on just my ankle and I'm gonna look for these four things of the ankle.

1 (1h 9m 29s):
And then I'm gonna go back and watch my knee and look for these same four things of the knee, through the hip, et cetera. All right, so what are these four things? Number one is you wanna look for symmetry. So symmetry is front to back, left to right, and your right limb and your left limb. All right, A and so what we wanna look for are if they aren't moving perfectly, that's fine, but you wanna see is one moving further ahead than the other One is one, turning to the side, one's not is one fidgeting and and twitching around differently. So you wanna look just to check to see and make sure that they're stable. That's one. Number two, you wanna look for stability. So key indicators here are things like if you, if you can't control A, a squat, a controlled squat where your knees don't start shaking like that would be an instability issue.

1 (1h 10m 16s):
So can you do the movement slow? Can you pause at the bottom maybe three seconds, maybe five seconds or 10. You should have complete control of that movement at all of these joints. Are your hips sliding to one side when you stand up? Is one elbow closer to your body when you're benching and the other one's more flared out? These are the things I'm talking about, right? I'm not worried about what angle they should be at or not. You're simply looking for asymmetries or instabilities. All right? So again, as you're pushing up, does one elbow start flipping and twitching and going all over the place? The third one is what I call awareness. So there are a lot of movement technique issues that are simply people don't know. And so you'll watch them squat.

1 (1h 10m 56s):
I do this in my classes all the time, I'll have a hundred kids out there squatting and you'll see some horrible squat technique. And then when you just tell them, Hey, did you realize your heels are supposed to be on the ground at all times when you squat? They're like, oh, okay. And they can correct it. It's not actually a movement flaw, it was just simply an awareness I didn't know. And then I actually didn't realize that that was happening in that position. So we want all of our joints to be going through a general full range of motion, which is number four. So the ankles, during like a squat, your knee should be able to go as far over your toe as possible while maintaining good position. Your feet flat on the floor, your, you know, three points of contact, your whole foot foot and you're not compromising another joint. So that's all you're going to look for. Those four things, symmetry, stability, awareness and range of motion through each joint, through each movement.

1 (1h 11m 43s):
It sounds difficult and time consuming, it's really not, right? You can generally kind of clear these things in one or two repetitions in a couple of seconds and what you're really going to look for, there's lots of scoring schemes. You can, you know, test the physical therapist will sort of you, I just look for absolutely terrible, like can't do it at all. Minor flaw or pretty close to good that that's really all I'm looking for. So my scoring system is 0 1 3 0 is like you're not going to do this exercise cuz you're at a very high acute risk. You might get hurt on rep one tomorrow. Number one, like a score of one is like there's a minor flaw here. We can probably do it but we need to be cautious of load and volume.

1 (1h 12m 24s):
The other one is maybe it's perfect, maybe it's not, but go ahead and sort of do it on a reasonable protocol. You'll be fine. So that's generally what you would need to do is a cost-free method of identifying good movement technique within any of the things that, that you would do.

0 (1h 12m 39s):
What about speed?

1 (1h 12m 41s):
I actually don't think this is one most people should test. If you're a high performance athlete, we can run a 40 yard dash or we can do some different things with a velocity transducer on a bar bill. If you're a weightlifter something, for most people, pure speed is really maximum velocity or acceleration or kinda the two ways we break it down. It's not just, just generally not that necessary to test.

0 (1h 13m 3s):
What about number three power, which I believe before you told me was speed times force.

1 (1h 13m 9s):
So the reason why I don't worry too much about speed is because you can infer a lot of it from a power test and a power test is easier to do as well as easier to train for for most people. So the, the cost-free version here is a simple broad jump. So this is stand with, you know, normal position, jump out as far in front of you as should possibly can and measure the distance between where you started and the back of your heel where it lands A super basic number to look for. There is your height. So you should be able to broad jump how tall you are. If you're five five, you should hit 5, 5, 6, 5, et cetera. It's not perfect. That's gonna ratchet down a little bit about 15% for females, they just simply don't have the power in general that men have.

1 (1h 13m 52s):
And so you're gonna wanna bring that down a little bit, but that's a, it's a very crude number. If you were to look at like a high performance NFL player, if they're six feet tall, they're gonna be jumping like nine to 10 to 11 feet. If you can jump your body height, we're not looking for optimization in this particular test. What you are looking for, red flags, if you can jump your body height, you're gonna be just fine.

0 (1h 14m 14s):
That's incredibly straightforward. And yet I have one question. Yeah, I'm assuming that I can squat down as low as I need to before I jump. I can swing my arms from back to front as harder with as much momentum as I can muster. And when I land, you said I'm gonna take the measure from where the back of my heels,

1 (1h 14m 33s):
You wanna measure the distance you actually covered. So to clarify, there's no running approach here. There's no steps into it. You're gonna stand at a still, yeah, you can swing, bounce as much as you'd like to do. You're gonna project all off. So you're gonna measure the distance from the tip of your toe. So basically stand behind the line and then the furthest point back where you land. So basically the worst possible score, not the best possible cuz your feet won't land symmetrically. One's probably gonna be a little bit farther. Now technically if you fall backwards and your hand touches the ground, we mark that number. But in this case, just use the furthest point back of your back heel and go from there.

0 (1h 15m 11s):
I'll be trying it tomorrow

1 (1h 15m 12s):
Morning. Now if you have access to a little bit more technology or you just really want to know a better number, a, a classic vertical jump is, is a good starting place. So you can actually do this in a simple cost-free way. You can just measure two of your hands, put them together so that both of your middle fingers are touching, overlap them and put them directly over your head. Okay? And then you kinda wanna reach up as high as you can get and you mark that on the wall. I, my brother and I used to do this all the time. We would take a, a highlighter, the the yellow ones and color as much as we could on our fingertips touch the wall so that the highlighter would stain in the wall. If you actually go back to my house and for my childhood, you'll see these markers all over our, our house.

0 (1h 15m 52s):
I'm sure our parents were

1 (1h 15m 53s):
Thrilled. Yeah, my dad didn't care. He single day, he didn't care. He's just like, whatever you guys do whatever you want. So you wanna measure that. And then of course you're gonna jump with those two hands and touch as high as you can up and you're gonna measure the distance between your standing reach and the actual height that you jump there. Now the reason you're doing it too handed by the way is because if you do one handed, you can actually reach pretty high by offsetting your shoulders and now you're getting into differences of, you know, who has more shoulder mobility, who has the ability to kind get up there, a two foot stand or a two-handed standard approach. Is there same thing, no running approach here. You can dip, you can drive, you can and do all those things. You can swing your arms, but you're gonna be a two-handed touch is a, is a general way to do that.

1 (1h 16m 33s):
You wanna look for a number of something like 24 inches or higher. If, if you're past the age of 50, that number can come down a little bit to closer to 20. And again, for females it's gonna be ratcheted down about 15% everywhere you want to go. If you're a a middle-aged female and you're jumping 20 inches, you're, you're in a pretty good spot, you're gonna be looking really nice there. So now if you can do that on a force plate, that's even better. So these are very basically scales that will go out to multiple digits, sometimes five to nine digits past zero. And you're gonna stand on these things. You can do the exact same test. And these are very interesting because they'll tell you not only how high you jump, but they'll tell you how much force you put into the ground.

1 (1h 17m 15s):
They can also tell you how long it took you. And this is called your rate of force development as well as impulse and speed and a bunch of other stuff which are, are important to help you understand where on the power spectrum you need to be. So you would do that in addition to using some sort of velocity transducer on a barbell. So a very classic thing to do would be, let's say you're gonna do a squat and you're gonna put this device on the barbell and you, and that's gonna measure the speed which the barbell moves. And you're gonna do that at 40% of your one repetition max 50%, 60%, 70, 89 new up to a hundred. And that allows you to create what's called a force velocity curve. And you can start to see at what point when you start loading things heavy, do you start slowing down too much?

1 (1h 17m 59s):
And that'll tell you what part of the force, velocity curve that you wanna train in to optimize your power. Why that's important. A lot of people will do things like when I'm training for power, how heavy should I lift? Well the general answer people say is 30% of your one rep max, but that's actually not true at all. What's most optimal for power development, which we'll discuss more much later, is depending on where you're flawed in the force velocity curve. So if you have access to technology like that, that can give you a lot more insight and information. If not, do the broad jump test or the highlighter on your fingertips and jump a touch the wall test

0 (1h 18m 34s):
At Andy Galen's house.

1 (1h 18m 36s):
Hey, just, you know what, come along, there's already the walls are already messed up. Just go ahead and come up to Washington and we'll do it.

0 (1h 18m 43s):
Fantastic. What about strength,

1 (1h 18m 45s):
Right? So strength is really important. You need to measure this in a, in multiple areas and we'll start off with grip strength. Okay? So you can do this in two ways. You can buy a hand grip dynamometer. Now these are anywhere between 20 to a hundred dollars anywhere. These actually used to be like when I was in school, like hundreds of dollars and now you can literally buy them on any website for 25 bucks. So my last recommendation is technically that's not cost free and I know your whole thing about the cost-free protocols, but 25 bucks, I'm calling that basically cost free. You can bring that in and test that and that's just a little device where you're gonna squeeze and you're gonna do, and I would do your right hand and your left hand, you wanna look for asymmetries there, but you wanna look for something like typically those are, they're gonna give you a value in kilograms and you wanna look for something like a minimum score here of 40 kilograms.

1 (1h 19m 33s):
Ideally you're up past 60 would be a really good spot to be in. You wanna make sure that there's no less than 10% variation between your left and right hand. Your, your non-dominant hand actually shouldn't be that much weaker in this test. So what you'll actually see a lot of times is the non-dominant can be oftentimes stronger because the dominant hand is more for movement, precision writing, things like that. So you want them to be close. If you are a male and you are under 40 kilograms on a hand grip dynamometer, like we're, we're gonna need to train that if, if you're a female it's not that much lower but about 35 kilograms is the cutoff point. If you're above 55 we can add it to your training but I'm not worried about leaving it outta your training if you're a female, if it's above 50, that's my sort of cutoff of where we want to go.

1 (1h 20m 18s):
So that's a fairly cheap one. Another one that you can actually do is just a dead hang. So you can hold onto any bar, ideally one that is thin enough to where you can wrap your whole hand around it. So you don't wanna be using a a giant fat grip, you're gonna have a false reading here. So something like going to the gym and jumping on any pull-up bar or or pull-up rack and you wanna hang and this is a simple time test. So in general we, we should be able to hang for a minimum of 30 seconds is what we're, what we're looking for. 30 to kind of 50 seconds is my like good but we could probably get better here if you're cruising above 60 seconds, I'm generally pretty happy.

1 (1h 20m 58s):
This is actually a good example of when females tend to be better grip strengthened women is tends to be strong and they can hang for quite a long time. So those, those standards don't really change that much for women. Now if you are exceptionally large, this thing doesn't scale perfectly. You know, if you're 240 pounds and even if you're lean, it's just hard to hang and hold 240 pounds. Conversely, if you're 140 pound five pounds, even if you're unhealthy, you're gonna be able to hang for a long time. It's just not that much weight to carry. So just rough numbers have to start off with.

0 (1h 21m 31s):
So that's grip strength. What about strength elsewhere in the body?

1 (1h 21m 35s):
The primary ones you, you can do an upper body strength test if you would like, although it's not technically something we do very often. Happy to do it one at max bench presser, something like that. That's great. The more one I'm generally more interested in is a leg extension test. And the reason I like this is a back squat is better. A barbed back squat is, look that's my, like that's my jam, that's my life, right? It's just very technically demanding and it, it's challenging. You need spotters, you need comfort. A lot goes into this for, so for the average person, a leg extension test is fairly standardized. You don't have to worry about technique and people can just get into it and go. And so what you wanna look for there is, is a couple of standards you want to hit.

1 (1h 22m 16s):
Again, a very simple answer here is body weight. Can you do a leg extension with your body weight?

0 (1h 22m 23s):
How? One repetition.

1 (1h 22m 24s):
One repetition.

0 (1h 22m 25s):
I can answer that right now. Can you? No, you can, no I can hack squat a reasonable amount of weight but I was on the leg extension this morning and I was a Nautilus machine and I certainly could not leg extension my body weight.

1 (1h 22m 38s):
Let me, lemme clarify, are you, were you doing a single leg?

0 (1h 22m 42s):
No.

1 (1h 22m 42s):
So bilateral, you can't leg extension your body

0 (1h 22m 43s):
Weight? No, but I certainly can hamstring curl my body weight.

1 (1h 22m 47s):
Oh okay. So we maybe have some deficiencies in our quads that we need to go after here, but that, that's a pretty good number you want to be at. If you go up in age, past age 40 every decade, that can come down about 10% and you'll still be in a pretty good slot. So if you're 50 years old and you're 170 pounds, if you can do one 60, you're in a pretty good sort of spot and then you can just again take it down about 10% every decade after 40. But prior to 40 there's really no change in strength. But certainly somebody in their forties to fifties should be able to leg extension their body weight.

0 (1h 23m 24s):
Noted. I look forward to our discussion a bit later talking about how to build strength.

1 (1h 23m 28s):
Yeah, any of these strength tests, they don't have to be done to a technical true one rep max. You can use what are called repetition conversion equation. So put on a load that you think is kind of close to your maximum and just do it for as many reps as you can. As long as it's under five reps total. You can then actually go online and enter that into any number of calculators anywhere and it will tell you, okay, you did three repetitions at 200 pounds. Your one rep max is probably 215 or whatever. So there's estimate equations. So if you don't wanna spend the time or you're not truly comfortable, like absolutely going to your true one rep max, just get to a a number that's fairly close and do as many as you can and then go online.

1 (1h 24m 9s):
Again, one rep max estimator equations are everywhere. If you get past five repetitions or so, the accuracy of those equations starts going down. So don't put on something and go, I did 12 reps of it and then try to figure out what your one rep max, it'll get close, you start moving past that, you're just getting worse and worse and worse accuracy. So I wanna make sure whether you're doing the leg extension test or a front squat test, you don't technically have to do an absolute one at max if neither of those are an option. Another one I like a lot here is simply a front squat or a goblet squat hold. So you're gonna hold a weight in front of your chest whether a kettlebell is is great here, a dumbbell is fine here and you wanna hold about half of your body weight, go all the way to the bottom position and try to hold that for about 45 seconds.

1 (1h 24m 56s):
So it's, it's a pretty good indicator of number one, your position. It's hard to be in a bad position for that long at that load as well as core strength and low back stability. So it's a very different indicator than say the leg extension test. But it's, it's a really nice one so it doesn't require many moving parts. It, it's more difficult than the leg extension but it's, it's quite a bit more functional and it's gonna give you insight into a lot more areas than just the quad ceps.

0 (1h 25m 21s):
So 45 seconds down at the bottom of the squat. Yep. And then returning to a standing position. Yep.

1 (1h 25m 26s):
In if you can't do the return, I actually, I'm not that worried but as long as you can hold that good position without a technical breakdown in that 45 seconds, that's a really good spot. As an intro, I want a third of your body weight for 30 seconds.

0 (1h 25m 41s):
Terrific. I plan to attempt all of those strength tests very soon. What about hypertrophy? Sure.

1 (1h 25m 48s):
Actually before we get into that, I wanna jump back really quickly. It's important to add a couple of caveats to the strength training stuff. So there's two that I wanna do. Number one, These are assuming you are technically proficient. So I don't want you to do any exercise to exhaustion or to maximum strength if you're not comfortable with your technique. So adjust these accordingly. If you're not comfortable with the front squat, do the leg extension. If you're not uncomfortable with that, do something different. So we never want to utilize maximum testing if it's gonna come with a consequence of, of serious acute entry. So that's the most important flag. The second one is your warmup protocol will have a huge effect on your actual results.

1 (1h 26m 30s):
And so whenever you do these tests, especially if you're gonna do a test and then a test again down the line, you wanna make sure that that warmup protocol is standardized. Now again, the N S C A and I can, we can, I can give you resources, has specific guides for exactly what to do for your warmup protocol prior to one rep max testing. So we can go there and you can look that stuff up, we can add that to show notes or something.

0 (1h 26m 51s):
Yeah, and I think when we get into a deeper discussion about strength and hypertrophy and resistance training in general, if we could touch into the the best warmup protocol. I know I have mine and I'm, I'm certain it's gonna be suboptimal based on everything. Maybe

1 (1h 27m 4s):
That's causable

0 (1h 27m 4s):
Based on every conversation we've ever had where I learned all the things I'm doing incorrectly. But I do make changes on the basis of what you tell me.

1 (1h 27m 10s):
It's not incorrectly so much as it is like suboptimal.

0 (1h 27m 14s):
That's a very kind way of telling me it's incorrect. Thank you. What about hypertrophy?

1 (1h 27m 19s):
So the thing you wanna pay attention to here is you have the aesthetic portion of hypertrophy that's entirely up to you. There is no rationale. You can decide what you feel like looks good or doesn't look good, that's irrelevant. There is a sufficient amount you need to have where below that is detrimental to your health regardless of your outcomes. And so the best way to do this is a couple of ways. Any sort of body composition test it, it can do this. So whether this is a a scan through like a DEXA scan which is a gold standard or other ways of biological bioelectrical impedance or other ways. So there's a ton of different tests you can get that are pretty close. Okay.

1 (1h 27m 59s):
So what you wanna pay attention to when you get like a DEXA scan is a number called F F M I. And so that stands for fat-free mass index. So you can look at again any number of online calculators. These are all standard so it doesn't actually matter where you pull 'em up, you don't have to worry about looking it up and whether or not it's right or not or something. And so that's gonna actually tell you if you have sufficient muscle math. And so a number you wanna look for in general something like if you're a man, your F F M I should be something like 20 or higher. If you're a woman you wanna look for something like 18 so that those are the targets. If you get past like 24, 25 for a man that's a lot of muscle mass, assuming you're reasonably lean.

1 (1h 28m 40s):
Now if your F F M I is like 24, 25 but your body fat is like 40%, you're actually just a very, very large individual. You're not like you're not in a great spot. So when we say these sort of numbers, it's the assumption that you're probably sub 30% body fat for a man and sub 35 for a woman. So those are the numbers. There are online calculators. All you you really need to know is your total body weight, your body fat percentage and then your height. You can answer those three numbers and then they'll tell you your F F M I scoring it'll correct for an adjusted value. And then most of those will actually tell you the grading rubric and then say good, average, bad, et cetera. But those are the numbers we look at. If you are as a man sub 17 as a woman sub 15, now we're in an area of of pretty severe physiological detriment for insufficient muscle and some of our later discussions we'll talk about why that matters.

0 (1h 29m 33s):
So that's not sub 17% body fat. This is specifically the FFF M L i. That's

1 (1h 29m 38s):
Correct. Yep.

0 (1h 29m 39s):
What about muscular endurance? Is this where you're gonna tell me I need to do wall sits?

1 (1h 29m 44s):
So this is really nice. You can do any number of tests here. A a standard plank I is a good testament of the of muscular endurance. So can you hold a front plank for 60 seconds? Can you hold a side plank for 45 seconds? Pretty easy if you're able to do a pushup. So if you can't that sort of tells you alone. It's actually interesting if you can't do a single pushup, that's not a muscular endurance issue. That's actually now a strength issue cuz that's a one up max problem. So we want to be able to do for, again, for a general male, we should have no problem doing 25 plus consecutive pushups.

0 (1h 30m 20s):
I apologize for interrupting you, but as long as we're talking about pushups, you just mentioned form. Are we talking chest touching the ground elbows, breaking right angles. What is a proper pushup? According to your laboratory,

1 (1h 30m 34s):
Unless you have a very specific reason to limit range of motion, I want all my testing done through a full joint range of motion. This is different for the person so it's individualized to them. But in general for a pushup, this would be a full complete lockout of the elbows on the top and a full chest touch or close to it at the ground. You can do it different, it doesn't really matter but just keep it standard from your pretest, your posttest if you're trying to mark progress. Okay? But for us, unless we have a very specific reason, we're going full range of motion for all of these tests.

0 (1h 31m 5s):
So 25 pushups for a

1 (1h 31m 7s):
Male, five pushups for a male is, is a standard. And even something like 10 is the number we're looking for again, as kind of minimum categories for an upper body muscular endurance.

0 (1h 31m 17s):
And not to get two down in the weeds, but I have observed other people, of course the number myself, no I'm kidding, but observed other people pausing at maybe at repetition 15 catching their breath and then continuing or you, that would be until test continue like a, like a, like a

1 (1h 31m 31s):
Piston. That would be a failed

0 (1h 31m 32s):
Test. So no pauses correct, just up, down, up, down and trying to hit at least 10 but ideally 25 or

1 (1h 31m 39s):
Now I learned this lesson in one of our studies probably nine years ago where we didn't clarify that and so we actually had an individual, he wasn't, there was, he wasn't being nefarious, he just figured out if I do a couple, take a quick break and do a coup, he like quadrupled his post-test results from his pre-test result because he figured out that little hack there. So you wanna standardize it. It's not that I'm against or have some sort of strong belief, it's just trying to keep protocol standardized and which means any break failed test.

0 (1h 32m 9s):
So 10 to 25 pushups minimum for males. What about for

1 (1h 32m 13s):
Females? So I'll clarify if it's sub 10 for a man that's again in your like very severe red flag problem. We really, really like to see a number above 25. Okay. That that's where we're anchoring. Anything between between 10 and 25 is like yeah but not severe.

0 (1h 32m 30s):
It means they have work to do.

1 (1h 32m 31s):
We have work to do,

0 (1h 32m 32s):
Right? And for and for females,

1 (1h 32m 34s):
For a female, you're gonna scale that sort of back. So a female, the answer could be as little as zero, right? So you're gonna see that. Can you do a full position if they're in that position? We're generally not going to do a muscular endurance test from the knees. We, we already know the answer is you're zero. We'll actually default to another test, which I'll talk about in a second here. So for those those folks, any that's gonna scale down a little bit, right? So basically you're looking at 15 is that marker, like 25 was for the male where I wanna see above 15 and if I do we're good, anything between five to 15 is the number of like, okay, if you're sub five, like we, we generally have some problems and if that is different between one and zero then like now we zero is, is is a problem.

1 (1h 33m 17s):
So we should be able to do that.

0 (1h 33m 18s):
So if a female cannot do 10 full pushups,

1 (1h 33m 23s):
Yeah, 10 full pushups is hard for a female depending on size.

0 (1h 33m 27s):
Okay, let's say a female can't do five full pushups, you said rather than go to a knees down version. Yeah. What would you do to assess their muscular endurance? And would you then also encourage them to work on their strength?

1 (1h 33m 41s):
Well absolutely. So again, if if they can't do, they can do anything less than three, you're gonna be strength. In fact, if you wanna look at muscular drugs in general, so this is a bit of a off topic, but I'll promise I'll keep it short and I'll come right back. When I was a doctoral student, I had two lab mates, one of 'em was a runner, female, 120 pounds, something like that, small. The other one was a male and he was basically like a straight bro. Like he lifts weights, doesn't do any other sort of training. He does like a very classic, not training program but kind of train. And they were sort of bantering back and forth for a while. And basically she was saying, you're so unfit you can't run it all. And he's saying you're so weak you can't do a pull-up. And so they challenged each other to a competition.

1 (1h 34m 22s):
They said at the end of the year, the girl is going to do 26 pull-ups and the guy had to run a marathon, so 26 miles. So that was the thing. And then there was some sort of consequence for whoever sort of failed it. So the guy quickly tried to figure out how the hell am I gonna run 26 miles when I have not run a mile in like many, many, many years. So he just started running, you know, three miles, four miles or whatever. She, well of course they, both of them ran immediately to me, right? And then she was like, how the hell I can't do a pull-up? And I was like, great. And I gave her a very specific maximal strength protocol and she was like, whoa, I want to go to the assisted pull-up machine and work on doing like sets of 25 cause I've gotta get my muscular endurance up.

1 (1h 35m 2s):
And I tried to explain to her, your muscular endurance is irrelevant if you can't do one, it's never going to matter. She did the muscular endurance protocol, the entire thing, didn't listen to me. The end of the year came, she still produced exactly zero pulls. So point is, if you look at muscular endurance, where is it strength and where is it actually muscular endurance. The general sort of number that you're looking for is under like 80%. All right, that's gonna tell you, is this a muscular endurance problem or is this an absolute strength problem

0 (1h 35m 31s):
Under 80% of a one repetition maximum. Yeah.

1 (1h 35m 34s):
Okay. Yep. So what I mean by that is this, in fact this actually leads into your question. The other way to assess muscular endurance is take the exact strength test you did from the the talk five minutes ago. What, which one did you do? Load that to 75% and then do that for as many repetitions as you can. And that is a tremendous barometer of muscular endurance. So if you were able to do 200 pounds on your leg extension test, put 75% on that and do that as many re as you can, you wanna look for more than eight repetitions. If you are below eight repetitions, then we have a muscular endurance problem, right? If it is, if it is higher than that, if you got 15 or 20, then we know we have probably some problems in your peak strength or the test itself.

1 (1h 36m 18s):
So that is a good eight to 12 sort of number. Is is where you wanna be looking at for there,

0 (1h 36m 24s):
What about anaerobic capacity?

1 (1h 36m 27s):
This one's more challenging. You either have to go to a laboratory and do something like a windgate test. So this is a 32nd maximal test where you're gonna see how much work can you possibly do in that 30 seconds. If you don't have a loud access to a laboratory, you can, you can do this on any, any protocol you want. You, this could be sprinting, this can be on a like an airbike, this could be on a rower, anything like that. Anything where you can exert maximum effort. And you don't have to worry about technical problems. So I generally don't like to do things like a kettlebell swing or something like that. There's just too many other variables. You need to be able to go as hard as you possibly can, knowing you are going to get to a place of tremendous fatigue.

1 (1h 37m 10s):
Now in the lab we often use what's called a Bosco protocol. And you're gonna stand on a force plate and you're gonna do as many vertical jumps as fast as you can, as high as you can for 60 seconds. And your absolutely destroyed by like second 45. So we'll either use that windgate protocol or that Bosco protocol if you want though, again, take any of those other places 30 seconds or so, up to 45 seconds, up to a minute if you want. It doesn't really matter. And you just mark down the distance you cover. That's all you're, we don't really have standards for these things because it's gonna be different how far you can travel in 30 seconds on a treadmill. Is this gonna be so different than sprinting in the field or on the assault bike or whatever.

1 (1h 37m 53s):
So what you really wanna worry about there is can you complete it? And then how awful do you feel afterwards? So what, what you really wanna think about here is not those protocols, but this you wanna think about. Can you get close to your predicted maximum heart rate? So the, the number we throw out is 220 minus your age. So if you're 50 years old, two 20 minus 50, you should be able to get to a maximum heart rate of around one 70 beats per minute. Now that number is extremely generic. If you don't get there, that doesn't have any indication of your fitness, if you get higher, that doesn't mean you're any more fit. It's just a rough number.

1 (1h 38m 33s):
So here's what I'm, what I want you to do. In this case, your heart rate recovery is the better metric. So I want you to get up to a maximum heart rate and then test your heart rate recovery. And what you should be looking for, there is about a half a beat recovery per second. So you're gonna get up to a place where you reach like absolute terrible exhaustion, right? Maximum fatigue, test your heart rate and then count right, have a timer going within 60 seconds. You should have, again, that half a beat per second. You should have a heart rate recovery of 30 beats per minute within the next, the next minute. So two minute recovery, it should begin half that. So 60 beats those are rough numbers to go by on your three minute recovery is again, half of that again.

1 (1h 39m 18s):
So that is the closest way. If your heart rate recovery is worse than that, then we know we have a problem in your anaerobic capacity or your cardiovascular capacity.

0 (1h 39m 28s):
I love it. What about number eight, maximal heart rate? Because what you just described sounds a lot like maximal heart rate.

1 (1h 39m 34s):
So this is your VO two max. So the goal standard here is to actually go into a laboratory and get this thing done. So we can actually run a, a VO two max test where you put a mask on, collect all your gases and run you to there. And there's a very specific protocol for completion of a, a true maximum test. And any, any of the scientists will know that if you don't have access to that, you can do a couple of tests. One of them is called a 12 minute Cooper's test. So this is simply time. You're gonna run for 12 minutes as far as you can, and you're gonna record the distance you covered. Again, you can go online to any, any number of of calculators, enter that distance in and that will tell you your proximal, your estimated VO two max.

0 (1h 40m 14s):
So that's a 12 minute sprint,

1 (1h 40m 16s):
12 minute sprint, maximum distance you can cover in 12 minutes,

0 (1h 40m 20s):
Keeping a steady pace the whole time or going

1 (1h 40m 22s):
Do whatever you want. The goal is to get maximum distance covered in 12 minutes. So that's anywhere between a mile to two plus miles, depending on how fit you are. But you just do that Cooper 12 minute test.

0 (1h 40m 36s):
Got it. I

1 (1h 40m 37s):
Told you. All right, so if you remember it, aerobic capacity is eight to 12 sort of minutes where you're gonna see a real truth test of that V two max. You simply can't get that in under a a few minutes. So it is a, is a, if you want, you can do a little gentler version of that. So there are a number of sub maximal tests there. In fact, there is a one mile walk test you can do. So again, all you're going to do is, in this case you have to have some sort of either a stopwatch or ideally a heart rate monitor. And all you have to do is, is is a Rockport one mile sub maximal test. So you're gonna walk a mile, record the time, record your heart rate at the end, enter those in and those will give you again, estimates of your review too, max.

1 (1h 41m 21s):
So that's the, the like, oh my gosh, I can't run for 12 minutes as hard as I possibly can or I don't wanna do it. Or we have a lot of these in our executive program. It's like my knee hurts too bad, I've got back pain when I run or whatever. Can I, okay. And you do the walk test and it's pretty accurate if you do it correctly. So technically all you have to actually do is measure your heart rate on your, you know, I can count 60 seconds, but it's just easier to work with everyone's watches and stuff. Now, just where the heart rate monitor, plug in those numbers. And again, those are all standard calculations, so anywhere you find those, you don't have to worry about the source. So you just enter your stuff in and they're gonna be running out the same equation.

0 (1h 41m 60s):
I like the idea of the 12 minute run. I'm gonna give it a shot.

1 (1h 42m 3s):
What we did for, for years, we did a one mile version of this and there's just a lot more science on the Cooper 12 minute Cooper test. So we did that. It is pretty good and it is not even remotely close to fun.

0 (1h 42m 16s):
It sounds like fun for other reasons. Yeah,

1 (1h 42m 19s):
Yeah. Well

0 (1h 42m 20s):
It is, it it fun in the sense that it reveals a lot. Yep. It's powerful, potent

1 (1h 42m 25s):
Super. There's no hiding. You can hide with a leg extension test. It doesn't hurt that pat, but you, you cannot feel anything but the 12 minute run as far as you can test. So

0 (1h 42m 37s):
These are really actually psych psychiatric diagnostics tests.

1 (1h 42m 41s):
They,

0 (1h 42m 41s):
They are of course, for sure. Number nine, long duration steady state. Yep. Exercise, I think of this as AKA endurance, but as you mentioned before, there are other forms of endurance. So long duration, steady state exercise.

1 (1h 42m 56s):
Yep. So you really want to think about this as not a standard number. This is you should maintain consistent work output for over 20 plus minutes. Okay? And this one I want you to just pick something that it was in your lifestyle. So is there a loop around your house that you can do? Is there some protocol that you, you like to use before and you're simply going to test your ability? Can you maintain work without stopping? That's all it needs to be. Now, ideally, I personally like to throw a little twist in here, which is can you do this with nasal breathing only? That's when I feel really good. If you can go 30 straight minutes without needing to take a break, walking doesn't really cut it unless you're very, very unfit.

1 (1h 43m 38s):
In which case if walking 30 minutes without a break is a challenge, okay, like there, but if you can, I want you moving at a non walking pace. I don't care what zone this is. 2, 3, 4, 5, I don't care. Show me. You can maintain minimum of 20 minutes of work with no breaks, no intervals, no downtime, and again, ideally breathing through your nose only.

0 (1h 44m 1s):
I love this list but it worries me a bit not because any one of these tests is necessarily that overwhelming, but because I'm unclear about how to arrange performance of these different tests. Yeah. For instance, do I separate them? So I'm doing one test like long duration output on one day and I'm doing strength on another day. Those seem pretty obvious to me. But are there ones that one can combine on different days? How much time should one give oneself in between these tests? And how often should one do an assessment just as we don't want to necessarily evaluate body weight changes by getting on the scale three times a day, maybe once a day at the same time each day is more practical.

0 (1h 44m 43s):
How often should we be assessing our fitness for each and every one of these? Well,

1 (1h 44m 47s):
The way that I would say this is you want to pick the one that is the worst and do that more frequently. So if for example, you do the upper body strength test and you are fantastic, if you can bench breast double your body weight, I don't need to test your bench very often for the average person. You're not a power lift like maybe once a year or something. Maybe not even that, we just don't need to get there. However, if we then test your, your VO two max and in your 12 minutes you cover a total of a half a mile, then like we might wanna test that every month, right? And so we're gonna let our priorities emphasize which one we're going to do more often. I would recommend doing this full battery once a year.

0 (1h 45m 28s):
Full battery mean the entire list on one

1 (1h 45m 29s):
Day, the, the entire, no no one day but within a week. So you could take a week now you could do these technically all in two days, three day split. Here is is probably best. So if you were to just say, hey, this is like testing week. I actually love this for beginning of the year or whenever it is that you sort of change your training. But I think once a year, just like once a year you should probably go to a physician and get full blood work, a full, you know, heart scan and and everything like that. And then if maybe you had a heart issue, they would come back in and test you more frequently. Whatever the case is, right? You should probably run through this and you're going to be thinking, yeah, but I don't wanna like give up on my exercise routine that week. Well I promise you you're not going to finish this week and think I didn't do very much work this week.

1 (1h 46m 12s):
It's, it's gonna feel great. And then you're gonna have a very nice barometer of exactly where you need to change and, and prioritize your training for the next quarter or half a year or wherever you want to go. If you wanna actually do this every six months. That's really, we end up actually doing this quite honestly, like more like every six months as a general test. That's a really good way to do. But if, if minimum of, if you're arguing with me, gimme once a year that you wanna do this. So which order to do them in the non fatiguing tests you can do whenever. So this is the, the body composition scan, the F F M I, the body fat composition, all this stuff can be done wherever. I generally like to do that though as your very first activity. The reason is we know that acute exercise can heavily influence things like body composition measurements because of infl inflammation, water storage, et cetera.

1 (1h 46m 59s):
So it's easiest to just sort of get that off of a 48 hour rest. You wanna make sure you don't do any hard exercise the day before a body composition test and probably 48 hours before that. So just start yourself off with that. Your movement test can be the same thing. You don't want to try to do a assessment of how well you're squatting if you're incredibly sore from your, your brutal squatting test. So tend to do those things when you're the most fresh. Then what you wanna do is any skill or maximum strength or power goes at the very beginning of the day and any fatiguing thing happens at the end. And so you could easily do this, all right, I'm going to do my power test, my broad jump.

1 (1h 47m 39s):
Great, you're not gonna be fatigued at all from that. And on the same day, since I'm already pretty warmed up now I'm gonna roll right into my leg strength test and since I'm really warmed up, I'm gonna do my leg muscular endurance test right there. So this is a very common strategy we use. We do our one wrap max leg extension, five minutes, seven minutes, whatever we need to do, come back, load it to 75%, do as many reps as you can. Boom, you could roll right into then your upper body test or your grip strength test or anything else that you wanna do there. Is there a little bit of influence? Yeah, but really for most people it's not that bad. What influence, I mean if you do a leg strength test coming back and doing an upper body strength test afterwards, it's not that big a deal.

1 (1h 48m 23s):
Give yourself 15, give yourself 20 minutes, keep it plenty of time so you can knock out your strength testing and muscular endurance testing all in one day. That could be, you could do your performance, your skill diagnostic, your power jump test, your strength and your muscle endurance and all that stuff is knocked out. You're gonna have to come back on a separate day and do your anaerobic test. This is 30 seconds maximum endurance. Things like that you could though if you wanted do that after your long duration tests. Your long duration test is again is just gonna function as like a, a big warmup or you could flip those things or you could do them on separate days. You're gonna have to do your VO two max test on its own day for the most part unless you wanted to do again your movement or your body composition sort of before those things.

1 (1h 49m 10s):
So you really have the ability to kind of mix and match. Ideally this most realistically probably takes three days if you want to separate them into four or five. The more separation you do, the better data you're gonna get. It's just a question of like how, how pedantic are you really trying to get here and are you willing to lose 5% to then save a whole day? Then you can do sort of these things in multiple stacks. So that's, that's how I would break it up.

0 (1h 49m 34s):
So what I'm hearing is better to do it than to not do it.

1 (1h 49m 38s):
Most definitely

0 (1h 49m 39s):
And be rational. Don't, don't try and do your strength output late in the day when you're fatigued. You know, if you're gonna combine sure. Some of the steady state endurance and maximal heart rate, fine understand there might be a slight deficit there but test it the same way each time and what you're really looking for is improvement.

1 (1h 49m 57s):
Yep. And you could also do the heart rate recovery under any of the modalities. So you could do the heart rate recovery after your VO two max as well. So you finish that thing and then just you know, getting to the same test for up to three minutes.

0 (1h 50m 9s):
These are fantastic tools. I'm almost tempted to say that I'm willing to post my numbers but that actually violates the sort of a core principle that I think we're getting at here, which is that it's highly unlikely that anybody is going to be phenomenal across the board. I mean certainly there will be individuals that are sure but based on everything we talked about earlier, specificity of training and how extensively somebody's been training a certain way will without question LOP side them if you will. Yeah. Toward being better in some of these assessments and less good in others. And that's just simply the way that these adaptations work.

1 (1h 50m 44s):
Yep. And it's not, you don't need to be optimal in all these areas to be optimal health from this perspective. You just wanna make sure again, there's no severe performance anchors, this is what we call them. Right? We wouldn't want any of these severe constraints cuz you're going to get limited by that thing. And so what you wanna do is move that up to just sufficient or concerning right? And get it away from that. If you do that, that thing's not gonna catch you. You're gonna be able to continue to pursue, pursue optimization, any, any of the one things that you have a specific passion for, which is generally what moves people, right? You, you train so that you feel better, you train because you know there are all these benefits to it and and geez, this audience probably could list hundreds of them, but you also train because you generally like to get better at something.

1 (1h 51m 33s):
A lot of us like have something. And so you wanna make sure that you're not going, Hey, I know you're good at endurance but you really shouldn't train anymore. We don't want that message. Not at all. I want you to love your training. We just wanna make sure that you're not loving that so much that you're not taking some blinders off and missing another area which would actually, again you pull that performance anchor, this whole ship sails faster with less effort and less friction.

0 (1h 51m 60s):
What I love about this is also that as you've described it, it's not just for athletes or people that are super into fitness, it's also for people that just want to be healthy and want aesthetic changes and that's why they're exercising, which I think accounts for a fairly large percentage of people out there. Yeah. So, so I think what you described is an incredibly well structured, incredibly clear and incredibly actionable. So I want to thank you for that. I'm serious about my willingness to do this and at least share those numbers with you. And I think for most people that are seeking what you listed off before aesthetic changes, functionality and longevity, it's clear that all nine of these are going to be important.

0 (1h 52m 42s):
Yeah. In some regard or another.

1 (1h 52m 44s):
So before we close out, I wanna wanna go back and finish off the metrics for VO two max. Cause I don't actually think I gave you numbers on that. So in general for men, a minimum number we wanna look at here is 35 milliliters per kilogram per minute. And for women that'd be about 30. So we, we can actually push a lot higher on those things. In reality, I wanna see men above 50,

0 (1h 53m 6s):
If I could just interrupt you for a second, when you say 40 milliliters per kilogram milliliters of what specifically?

1 (1h 53m 15s):
Yeah, so what actually those metrics mean is the first one milliliters is oxygen. So it's a amount of oxygen kilograms is body weight. So it's how much oxygen can you bring in per kilogram of body weight per minute. So does a volume of oxygen per your size in a time duration. In fact the way that you calculate it is you multiply your cardiac output by what's called your AV two difference. Your cardiac output is your heart rate times your stroke volume. So how much blood your pumping out per pump is your stroke volume, how many times you're pumping or you're beating. You multiply that by your AVO two difference AVO two difference is artery minus vein difference.

1 (1h 53m 55s):
So it's the amount of oxygen in your arteries minus the amount of oxygen in your vein, which is gonna tell you how much you took up in your capillaries in your muscles. So you take those two factors, multiply 'em together and there's your VO two max.

0 (1h 54m 6s):
You know, as you were describing that I imagine you getting to an FM I machine and seeing that equation lighting up in your brain because clearly it's committed to memory very well. Thank you for that. Yeah. Clear description.

1 (1h 54m 17s):
Yep. So to finish those numbers, I really truly wanna see some, a man above 50 and I'm not even really stoked until I get above 55. In fact, it's sort of funny, Dave Costal, whose lab I did my PhD in, he was retired by the time, but he, he's again one of these legendary figures in exercise physiology started in the seventies. He would always say there's no human excuse to be below 60. Which I was always like, damn. Like that's really actually pretty hard to get to.

0 (1h 54m 43s):
Was he, was he? Oh yeah, 60

1 (1h 54m 45s):
Or he's still actually setting world records like in these last couple of years in his like all the masters records for swimming and and cycling and stuff. So he was a super, super fit guy. So he was always above 60. He's probably like 50 something now even though he is, you know, 80 or whatever,

0 (1h 55m 1s):
80 years old. Yeah. He's with a VO two max of 50 or

1 (1h 55m 4s):
He's probably really not 50. He's probably, but he's probably going to remember that earlier in the, we talked about how I had the 92 year old by the view of two max is 38. Dave's probably gonna break that record when he gets there. I'm sure. I'm sure I g in fact, I guarantee you he has that number in his brain. I haven't talked to him in 15 years, but I guarantee you that number is in his brain and he's probably training for it.

0 (1h 55m 24s):
I love it and I love it because it proves that exercise pays off. Oh yeah. It's one of the few things in life where there's a direct relationship. Yeah. Between work and outcome.

1 (1h 55m 35s):
Yeah. That's as Henry Rollins described in his wonderful essay, if you're familiar with that. Oh my gosh. Well you're a punk rock guy. You know Henry,

0 (1h 55m 43s):
I'm sure, I mean I certainly know who he is and I know his, his

1 (1h 55m 46s):
Work has an incredible one page paper, sort of something to do with the iron and he basically describes that as like this is the one thing where it's truth, like it is the most true thing you'll ever do, which is a, a love for that.

0 (1h 56m 1s):
It's almost like a principle of nature.

1 (1h 56m 2s):
A hundred percent. Yeah. So with with the women, I really wanna see the women. If I wanna see men above 55, I really wanna see women above 50 A as the target. And if you like, you're there, I'm pretty good. So you can do the math on then the middle ground of what's like, okay, but we need to work on it. In fact, if you look across the literature at different athletes, you're gonna see like the, the really high level endurance folks. You know, they may pass 70 or 80. In fact there was talk a few years ago of a guy breaking a hundred, it's like an 18 or 19 year old, but I actually don't think it was ever fully confirmed or repeated. But certainly you'll see plenty of people like 95 in those extremes.

1 (1h 56m 43s):
If you look at other sports like football or basketball, they're probably going to be in the 55, 65 sort of range. So if you as an average person are 55, that that's a really good marker to be in. If you get even close to that, you're in a good spot. I'm, I'm sorry if I let you down Dave.

0 (1h 56m 59s):
No, I just love how as you're describing this average person, you're looking at me with just a little bit of sympathy. Like, like if you, if you reach the standard of average, Andrew, listen, you're giving me prompts all over the place to try and improve my metrics, whatever they happen to be. And I think that's one of the great values of getting objective numbers. Yeah. Even if they have to be measured by some of these back of the envelope techniques. Yeah. That, you know, I guess we always teach people in the laboratory, right, that a tool can be not extremely precise, but as long as it's reliable, of course there is still value there. I mean of course you'd love to have the most precise and most reliable tool, but if you can't then at least go for a reliable tool and measure for consistency.

0 (1h 57m 41s):
Yep.

1 (1h 57m 41s):
For the real world reliability beats validity as, as much as we can for a lot of things we're talking about. Especially if we're using it as a metric of did I get better? As long as that tool's, reliable body composition, does all these things have inherent error in them. Some of them are smaller, some of them are larger. But as you mentioned, having standardization within the testing protocol is gonna allow you to measure progress. And that's gonna tell you sort of where you're at now, that we've sort of covered all those, these areas of adaptation. We walk through the history and we walk through a bunch of the explanations for why people are, are maybe not getting the results that they wanna get through their training. The way I would like to go with the rest of our conversations would be to just go through each of those adaptations step by step and make sure I cover very specific protocols for if you have run through this testing and identified an area of weakness.

1 (1h 58m 29s):
So maybe you've sort of been lifting a lot cuz you like lifting and you maybe realize that your cardiovascular fitness or your heart rate recovery is not where it really should be. Or the opposite like we've talked about. Maybe you're doing a lot of that type of work and your strength isn't there, your movement quality's not there. So you've identified a problem, how do I specifically solve it? What are the evidence-based and most effective protocols that I could put myself in for each one of these categories? And I think that would give people a lot of take home value, but it's gonna take us some time to cover. So it's, it's gonna have to come across, over multiple conversations between you and I. Great.

0 (1h 59m 6s):
Well I'm looking forward to each and all of those conversations and I want to add just one more metric to our discussion today, which is really just my way of saying thank you because if there were a metric for amount of useful information per sentence spoke, you would be at the upper level of that metric. You have this amazing ability to provide so much knowledge in a clear and concise and today listed out format that is both interesting, grounded in science and actionable. So on behalf of everyone listening, and certainly for myself as well, I just wanna say thank you.

1 (1h 59m 45s):
Well I appreciate the compliments and I'm looking forward to the next conversation, jumping right into speed, strength and hypertrophy training and, and one of the evidence-based and best practices for protocols in those areas.

0 (1h 59m 58s):
If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for us or comments or suggestions about topics you'd like us to cover or guess you'd like me to include on the huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comments section on YouTube. We do read all the comments. Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and during today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. I'd also like to inform you about the Huberman Lab podcast free newsletter. It's called the Neural Network Newsletter. And each month the Neural Network newsletter is sent out and it contains summaries of podcast episodes, specific protocols discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast.

0 (2h 0m 43s):
All in fairly concise format and all completely zero cost. You can sign up for the Neural Network newsletter by going to huberman lab.com, go to the menu and click on newsletter. You provide us your email. We do not share it with anybody and as I mentioned before, it's completely zero cost by going to huberman lab.com. You can also go into the menu tab and go to newsletter and see some example newsletters from months past. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion about fitness, exercise, and performance with Dr. Andy Galpin. And as always, thank you for your interest in science.