0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab guest series where I and an expert guest discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today's episode is the fifth in a sixth episode series on fitness, exercise, and performance. And today's episode is all about recovery. That is how to maximize your recovery, to achieve your fitness and exercise and performance goals and how to avoid over training. Dr. Andy Galpin. Great to be back. Today we're discussing recovery and I'm very excited to have this discussion because as we know, despite the fact that different types of exercise can be used to trigger different types of adaptation such as increased long distance endurance, anaerobic capacity, strength, hypertrophy, et cetera, the workouts themselves are not actually when the progress occurs, when the adaptation occurs.

0 (1m 0s):
And this to me is extremely interesting because it parallels what we see with so-called neuroplasticity, which is the nervous system's ability to change in response to experience. We sit down to learn something, we experience something, and that is the trigger for rewiring of the nervous system. But the actual rewiring occurs away from the experience or the learning. So to in fitness and in exercise recovery is where the real results actually emerge, where we get better. So I'd love for you to explain what recovery really is and the different types of recovery, certainly different ways to enhance recovery.

0 (1m 43s):
And I'd also love for you to explain whether or not there are ways that people can become better at recovering. Because if indeed recovery is when progress emerges, when we get better, well then anything that supports our recovery and gets us better at recovering ought to increase our rate and our degree of progress.

1 (1m 60s):
Absolutely. You nailed it in the description. What people really want is some sort of change, whether you are talking athletes or general population, this change is some sort of improvement in muscle function, reduction in body fat, higher functioning metabolism, whatever the case is. And the only way that happens is we talk about the equation of stress causes adaptation, but as you alluded to, the piece in the middle is only if you can recover from it. And so the game we're playing here is we all agree we want more adaptation. That means we need to bring more stress into the system, but we then have to ensure that our recovery outpaces the stress input or else we will, no adaptation will occur.

1 (2m 41s):
In fact, what happens is you will actually be in a negative spot and start going backwards. And so what I would love to do is, is talk about how we've handled this. And I've had a decent amount of experience here. I was fortunate enough to do my master's degree in the laboratory of a gentleman named Andy Fry, who was an NSCA lifetime achievement award winner. And he studied in large part recovery over-training, overuse overload in a lot of areas. In addition, I've been fortunate enough to work with individuals from high-functioning CEOs and executives who have little time for recovery, high job stress, two in two athletes in the, think of the example of pitchers in major league baseball who have to recover in a matter of four days so that they can pitch again at maximum velocity.

1 (3m 28s):
So I would love to outline some of the tools and tactics strategies that we use for all these individuals. Give you some foundational stuff and I would love to maybe actually cover some things that most people have never heard of, some stuff you may not have access to, some technologies that we use, some biomarkers, and then even a whole bunch of things that are keeping with the theme of your show here, cost free or extremely low costs. So all those strategies, what I'd also like to do is cover nutrition and supplementation and fueling and hydration and things, but that's probably gonna have to be saved for an additional conversation that we'll do in the next episode.

0 (4m 8s):
Yes. So we will absolutely hold a conversation about nutrition and supplementation where you can educate us about all the top contour stuff all the way down to the the fine details. I do have a question about recovery and it's one that I think most people are familiar with themselves, which is soreness. We think of it as a muscle soreness, but I was trained early on in my scientific career to always question the seemingly obvious. Hmm. So a couple of questions about soreness. First of all, what does soreness really reflect? Is it really muscle soreness? It feels like it's in the muscles, but what other organ systems and tissues and cell types does it involve?

0 (4m 51s):
And then I'm particularly interested in this onset or this experience that many of us, including myself have had, which is delayed onset muscle soreness. Why would it be that when we are less in shape or when we perform a movement that is extremely novel to us, the soreness seems to arrive after a reasonable delay of maybe even a day. You know, we're find the next day, but then 48 hours later we are exceedingly sore. And as we get more fit or more familiar with the movement, the soreness seems to arrive earlier. So I realize I just asked you about three questions or more. First of all, what is muscle soreness at a cellar level? Which cells, which organ systems and so forth, what does it mean if we are sore is something I know we'll get into a little bit later.

0 (5m 37s):
And then why the delayed onset muscle soreness?

1 (5m 39s):
It's actually one question, so it's totally fine. You answered all, you asked all three because I am gonna actually answer number three, which will answer number two, which will actually answer number one.

0 (5m 49s):
I'd love to tell you that I set it up that way intentionally, but I'm just happy to hear that where I was unable to be concise. You are able to be concise. Thank you. Yeah,

1 (5m 58s):
We are still learning a lot about this area. It's actually really difficult to perform these studies. Anytime you ask a question about something like pain or soreness, you're immediately talking about perception and there is obviously a physical component to that and there's also perception. And so teasing those things out is extraordinarily challenging. That said, there has been a lot of work in this area. In fact, probably you may have a show already out on pain or maybe one's coming down the road.

0 (6m 27s):
We did an episode on pain a while ago, but it's definitely time to revisit that literature. I also have some amazing colleagues at Stanford who work on pain, both from the cell and molecular side, but also from the psychological side about how our understanding of pain and what we believe about pain shapes the experience of pain and pain

1 (6m 48s):
Relief. Amazing. That's, that stuff is incredibly important and I'm, I'm glad we flagged that and maybe we'll just call that good for now. They could come back later for another one of your shows. So that being said, why does it happen 28 to 48 hours after you exercise? Well, that actually should give you some clues into what's happening. So the traditional dogma of delayed onset muscle soreness is what this is called is that it is a result of micro tears and the muscle. And so you can sort of think I challenge the muscle. There were some small tears in there and I'm feeling the results of that. Well, in fact, that certainly does happen and it can happen. That is not what's explaining your muscle soreness.

1 (7m 29s):
And in fact you can be quite sore from exercise and have no measurable amount of muscle damage. And so much like anything else, when we're in this idea of pain, it's not a one-to-one explanation. There are multiple factors that are probably causing your perception of pain. Muscle damage can be one of them. It is not the only one. And it is probably, in my opinion though, this is yet to be shown definitively, probably not even the leading cause of it. And so what's actually happening, well the reason it's taking you 24 to 48 hours is, is you can actually find various papers, literature reviews, dating back in a number of years now over a decade that show these wonderful curves of an inflammatory and immune response.

1 (8m 15s):
And, and we don't need to necessarily go through the entire physiology right now, but effectively what's happening is those things have a little bit of a time delay. And so some of those steps happen immediately, like right when the exercise is there. And then some of them are delayed six to 24 to 48 hours. If you know a little bit about this physiology, it's you have a combination of neutrophils and macrophages and a bunch of things happening and this has a time sequence. So what happens is by the time we get to this 28 to 48 hour window, now the muscle soreness kicks in, which, wait a minute, if I, if this was a result of my muscles being torn and that happened immediately, wouldn't that pain start immediately? Well the answer is it would.

1 (8m 56s):
And so that that, that is your first clue that that's not responsible for it. And when we look at that immune response and we see that that has actually peaked 24 to 48 hours later and then that's the same time the pain kicked in, that's cooling you into the problem. So we have this immune response happening and inflammation, then all of a sudden we start getting fluid accumulation. And now there are what are called nociceptors and you're probably very, obviously you're very familiar with these and these are pain receptors. What's actually interesting is we don't necessarily know a lot of information about how many pain receptors are in muscle. They're not really in the belly. In fact, this is why I can perform my muscle biopsies and they don't really hurt.

0 (9m 31s):
You mean in the belly of the muscle? Correct. Yeah.

1 (9m 34s):
We do have pressure sensors though. And so if you change the volume of the tissue, you will respond to that very, very quickly. So by enhancing swelling in the actual muscle, that is immediately putting pressure on those pressure receptors if you will. That's a signal. So what's probably happened here, and I just, I just hate to give you another bone, but a lot of delayed on some muscle soreness is probably just a neural feedback loop rather than it is actual muscle damage.

0 (10m 0s):
Yeah, it makes a lot of sense. There's a lot of interactions between the types of neurons that control touch sensation and pain sensation and itch sensation. In fact, a lot of people kind of collapse, itch and pain together. Bingo. Yeah. You know, that's something, it's painful and it itches is is a familiar thing for people mosquito bites and such. Yeah. And of course there's the classic gait theory of pain. This is, yeah. Which people will be familiar with. And then I'll explain why I'm explaining this, which is if you, you, something hurts, you know, you, you bon your knee or you stub your toe, we tend to grab that body part and try and rub it totally.

0 (10m 41s):
And that rubbing is not a coincidental thing. It activates a set of touch sensors that are, that respond to kind of broad dull touch and that actively inhibits through the release of an inhibitory neurotransmitter, the fibers that control the pain signal. So anytime we, we rub a, you know, like a charlie horse, our leg or we, or we stub our toe and we, you know, we wince and then we grab the toe, we like squeezing it a little bit that's actually deactivating or partially inactivating the, the pain mechanism. So the idea that a swelling response would then trigger a neural response that the then would recruit the pain receptor response.

0 (11m 25s):
Here I'm using broad, broad brush strokes here to explain this makes very good sense to me now and only now that you've explained how this process

1 (11m 34s):
Works, I can actually even add more to that. So if you remember how muscles work, so we have to have some sort of signal from the nervous system that has to actually go in and tell the muscle to contract. Well remember there a few episodes ago we covered the physiology here of what's called a motor unit. Okay, well what I didn't explain to you are called muscle spindles and we have talked about proprioception in an episode of before as well, but we never tied this picture together. So let me walk you through that really quickly and it's gonna tie this loop in an into a nice bow. So what happens is this motor unit is, is coming in from what's called an alpha motor unit and that's gonna be innovating your muscle fibers and that's gonna tell the muscle fibers to contract.

1 (12m 18s):
Those are typically spread out throughout the all, all sides of the muscle in interior exterior all over. On the outside though, there is another type of muscle called a muscle spindle. Now these are non-contract al, so they don't have that actin an mycin and they don't produce force. They are responsive, they're appropriate, receptive. So what that means is they sense stretch. And this is why for example, if you were to stretch a hamstring or stretch any muscle group, it doesn't really matter or muscle, it's innate response is to fire back to close that distance. And this is what keeps you from say, if you're leaning to the right, you can imagine that the example we give is if you're, if you're standing on one foot and you start swaying to the right, all right, let's say you're standing on your right foot and this makes this easier for folks and you start swaying to the right, like you're gonna fall on your right ear will hit the ground, the inside of your right calf muscle will start being stretched, the outside will start being compressed, right?

1 (13m 14s):
So the stretch on the inside of the right calf muscle will sense that stretch and it will respond by contracting that pulls you back to the middle and stops you from falling. That's proprioception and muscle spindles sends stretch and tell you to contract. The way that they work is, is through gamma motor neurons. And so these are sensory things. So what's happening is unlike when you tell your muscle to contract, it goes alpha to the muscle contract. These muscle spindles work such that it is, oh I've been stretched, send signal back to some central point typically in the spinal cord. And we don't actually wanna go all the way up to the brain, we've got a time delay. This is why these are subconscious autonomic, right, or versus somatic.

1 (13m 55s):
So the gamma is gonna go back to the central location and then come back through the alpha motor neurons until it to contract. So you have this wonderful mechanism of sensing stretch going back. Well one theory that's been put forward regarding muscle damage is that the pressure is actually being applied to those nerve endings of the muscle spindles and that's actually responsible for the pain signal that's going back and coming up to your brain and you're registering that as pain rather than it is actually in the, the contractile units. So the muscle fibers

0 (14m 27s):
That, that's a very intriguing idea because it would suggest that stretching muscles in order to alleviate soreness might be the exact incorrect thing to do. Yeah. Now I'm not saying that's for sure for certain, and I'm just building off the mechanistic logic that we've laid out here. Yeah. Really that you've laid out

1 (14m 49s):
Here. There is a, the more effective principle based on exactly that, which is this is generally why low level movement is effective at reducing acute

0 (14m 58s):
Soreness because that's low level contraction of the muscles and you're gonna

1 (15m 1s):
Andre and get tissue out and and get fluid out.

0 (15m 5s):
Wow.

1 (15m 6s):
You're literally pumping it out of the the

0 (15m 8s):
Cell. Yes. And in our previous episode where we were talking about programming or using the we, but let's be fair here where you were educating us, including me and the audience about different structures for programming exercise for specific adaptations, et cetera, the month, week, year scales, et cetera. We had a brief discussion about the fact that if one trains legs very hard with resistance training, you know, some heavy squatting or dead lifting it. Yeah. Or, and there's some soreness that oftentimes doing some lighter cardio or some low impact work the next day or, or any number of different things that involve not high intensity contractions of the muscles, but that do require contractions of the muscles that it can alleviate soreness more quickly than if one were to simply lie around and you know, watch Netflix or something.

1 (16m 3s):
Yeah, that that's exactly right. The, to to go back just a little bit as well, the, if that's really the case, the question is like where is this inflammatory signal coming from? And while there's much to be learned there, there is a little bit of information right now that suggests it's potentially coming from free radicals released from the mitochondria. Again, that may or may not hold up as more research comes, I'm not sure, but if you remember back to our conversation on endurance. So we talked about the electron transport chain and aerobic metabolism and regardless of whether or not you're getting energy from glycolysis or carbohydrates, remember they have to be finished through aerobic metabolism.

1 (16m 44s):
So even if you're lifting weights and you're using carbs for your fuel, you have got to finish that metabolism by running it into the mitochondria and performing oxidative metabolism as a result of that, that electron transport chain runs. So theoretically if free radicals, which is, which are hyperreactive oxygen species, basically they're oxygen molecules that are missing in electrons so that they react to a lot of things. They're the opposite of antioxidants by the way. This is, you know, the oxygen molecules with extra protons so they can balance the charge if those leak out, that in and of itself is going to be a massive inflammatory signal and that's probably what signals the cause of these neutrophils and macrophages and kicks off this entire cascade.

1 (17m 25s):
Again, I, I believe we need more research there. I need to look into it. Maybe it's more definitive than I than I know, but that's probably what's happening, potentially what's happening rather that causes that cascade in signal. Also what you have is this combination of, well if that's the case, why am I not getting tremendous amount of muscle damage when I do more aerobic based exercise? Well, because you don't have the mechanical tension pulling on the fibers that's actually causing damage to the cell wall that allows these free radicals to escape the mitochondria and the cell wall. So that's the best we can postulate at this moment as to why those things are happening. And then why, again, low level exercise tends to enhance even things like percussion.

1 (18m 10s):
So using either instruments that put a low level of vibration into your leg or like p nomadic boots. So you massage, all these things are generally probably helping because they're moving that stuff out. Edema most specifically. So pressure comes off of those nerve endings in the muscle spindles and allows you to stop receiving that signal of pain despite the fact that you didn't actually regenerate tissue at all yet.

0 (18m 37s):
Fascinating. And I think that beautifully frames where we're headed next, which is to talk about all the different modes of recovery and how to accelerate them and perhaps even how to combine different forms of recovery in order to become better at recovering and in doing so, make faster progress with fitness. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is also separate from Dr. Andy Galpin teaching and research roles at Cal State Fullerton. It is however part of our desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, we'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

Momentous (19m 18s):
Our first sponsor is Momentus. Momentus makes supplements of the absolute highest quality. The Huberman Lab podcast is proud to be partnering with momentous for several important reasons. First of all, as I mentioned, their supplements are of extremely high quality. Second of all, their supplements are generally in single ingredient formulations. If you're going to develop a supplementation protocol, you're going to want to focus mainly on using single ingredient formulations. With single ingredient formulations, you can devise the most logical and effective and cost effective supplementation regiment for your goals. In addition, momenta supplement ship internationally, and this is of course important because we realize that many of the Huberman Lab podcast listeners reside outside the United States. If you'd like to try the various supplements mentioned on the Huberman Lab podcast in particular supplements for hormone health, for sleep optimization, for focus, as well as a number of other things including exercise recovery, you can go to live momentus spelled o u s. So that's live momentus.com/huberman.

LMNT (20m 13s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by element. Element is an electrolyte drink that contains the exact ratios of the electrolytes, sodium, magnesium, and potassium to optimize cell functioning for mental and physical performance. Most people realize that hydration is key. We need to ingest enough fluids in order to feel our best and perform our best. But what most people do not realize is that the proper functioning of our cells and nerve cells, neurons in particular requires that sodium, magnesium, and potassium be present in the correct ratios. Now of course people with pre-hypertension and hypertension need to be careful about their sodium intake. But what a lot of people don't realize is that if you drink caffeine, if you exercise, and in particular if you're following a very clean diet that is not a lot of processed foods, which of course is a good thing, chances are you're not getting enough sodium, potassium, and magnesium. To optimize mental and physical performance element contains a science-backed ratio of 1000 milligrams. That's one gram of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium and 60 milligrams of magnesium and no sugar. If you'd like to try Element, you can go to drink element, that's lm nt.com/huberman to get a free element sample pack with your purchase. Again, that's drink element lm nt.com/huberman to claim a free sample pack

Eight Sleep (21m 27s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by eight sleep. Eight Sleep makes Smart mattress covers with cooling, heating and sleep tracking capacity. I've been using an eight sleep mattress cover for about the last eight months and it has completely transformed my sleep. I'm sleeping about the same amount, but I'm sleeping far deeper and I'm now getting the proper ratios of so-called rapid eye movement or REM sleep and slow wave sleep and waking up feeling far more recovered mentally and physically. The underlying mechanism for all that is very straightforward. I've talked many times before on this podcast and elsewhere about the critical relationship between sleep and body temperature. That is in order to fall asleep at night, your body needs to drop by about one to three degrees in terms of core body temperature and waking up involves a one to three degree increase in core body temperature. With eight sleep mattress covers, you can adjust the temperature of your sleeping environment to be one temperature at the start of the night, a different temperature, the middle of the night, and a different temperature as you approach morning, each of which can place you into the optimal stages of sleep and have you waking up feeling more refreshed than ever. If you'd like to try AIDS sleep, you can go to aids sleep.com/huberman and check out their pod three cover and save $150 at checkout aids. Sleep currently ships in the usa, Canada, United Kingdom select countries in the EU and Australia. Again, that's eight sleep.com/huberman to save $150 at checkout.

1 (22m 45s):
So to kick off this discussion about recovery and with the understanding that recovery is when the specific adaptations to exercise actually occur, I'd love for you to share with us what happens or needs to happen during recovery in order for us to get better at anything, endurance, strength, et cetera, but also how specific types of exercise stimuli and specific types of adaptations that we trigger. So running a bit further, lifting a bit more weight, slowing the cadence of a given movement, et cetera.

0 (23m 20s):
How those specific types of triggers for adaptation relate to the specific or maybe similar types of recovery that are required for us to make progress. In

1 (23m 29s):
One of our previous episodes we were talking about how the Harvard Fatigue Lab really identified this idea of homeostasis or at least sort of championed it for it. And that's important because at all levels physiology wants to return to homeostasis. So what happens in terms of adaptation is you've challenged it to a level that it realizes if it does not make a change, it will not be able to get back to the same level of homeostasis. That's fundamentally what's happening. That is recovery, that process of taking an insult, being temporarily reduced in functionality, causing a change so that now we come back and get what we often call in sport performance super compensation.

1 (24m 12s):
All that really is doing though is bringing you to a new level of homeostasis. Effectively it is understanding if that same insult comes again, I need to be able to make sure that that doesn't cause the same level of disruption. And so we raise the bar whether this is enhancing our ability to take the same level of mechanical tension on the muscle and not result in micro damage. Whether this is being able to take the same reduction in energy and not have that compromise sleep or anything that's really fundamentally changing so that we can have a new level of homeostasis because it's presuming, it's predicting that that same insult is going to come again down the road.

0 (24m 55s):
I wanted to clarify for people that when Dr. Galvin says insult, while he may actually insult me, insult is the nerd speak terminology for some sort of damage inflicted to a tissue or system. So he's speaking about the insult to the muscle or insult to the neuromuscular connection created by adding more weight to the bar, running a further distance, running a bit faster or pedaling faster that creates a micro insult or an insult. And now because everyone is familiar with psychological and verbal insults fair, you'll never forget that biological concept.

1 (25m 35s):
It's important we tag another thing here which is called hormesis. It's one of my favorite phenomenon and it effectively means this, that there is a dosage or toxicity responds to almost everything. And if you think about this in the context of say drugs, what this means is if I gave you 10 milligrams of something that it would be okay, but if I gave you 20 it'd be a problem. And eventually if I go up and give you enough, this thing turns toxic. This is a case of everything from cyanide where it can actually be in small dosages in nature. In fact, it's in many of the fruits that you eat, but it's not a dosage that it doesn't matter if that dosage gets higher though, that actually can cause problems. And if it is high enough it can actually kill you instantaneously.

1 (26m 16s):
The back end of that though is because you introduced this micro insult as you framed it for me perfectly, your body will then adapt to it. And that's really what's happening with exercise adaptation is is it is a hormetic stressor. And why that's important is if you look at the immediate responses to exercise, you see an extremely large increase in inflammation. You see oxidative stress, you see a whole cascade of autophagy, like all these problems unquote happening. It's like, what's actually quite funny here is as a part of my PhD, the academic portion, I had to go through the medical side of the school and so I was, my physiology class was in med school. So I'm the only non-medical doctor in that class, right?

1 (26m 58s):
I'm a PhD so I'm, I leave my lab, I walk across campus and I take physiology class with these folks and I, I died the whole time internally because every time we would cover a new area, it was basically the, the exact same value or number in a medical setting is like oh my gosh, they're going to die. And in performance setting is like this person's in fantastic shape is, I've never still amuses me to this day obviously cuz it's just simple things like total blood volume, right? And you cover like okay if you have a patient come in their blood volume is six liters, you know, immediately get 'em on a diuretic of some sort cuz they're gonna have a heart attack cuz blood pressure gets up. Right now I'm immediately thinking, damn six liters that that person is super fit.

1 (27m 39s):
Cuz that is actually a positive adaptation to training. It's one of the most important, if not the most important adaptation to endurance training is enhanced total blood volume. So you'll, you'll store more blood in your body when you're more fit than you are less fit. So I'm gonna could go on all, all these things, sodium concentrations, potassium concentrations are like, you look at these things on paper and you don't know if that person's about to die cuz they're 65 years old and outta shape or if that person's gonna break a world record in the marathon.

0 (28m 3s):
This brings up a very important tangent, which is, for instance, if you go and take a blood test and you are somebody who exercises very intensely with resistance training, your blood creatinine levels can be oh way out of range. Yeah. And if your physician doesn't know that you're doing certain forms of exercise might say Wow, there's a lot of muscle tissue damage occurring in your body. Yeah. As you mentioned before, your total blood volume is is dangerously high. Yeah. When in fact you are far healthier and, and indeed much fitter than the person who as numbers would be in range. That said obviously there are limits to these, to these statements whereby you would want to be cautious and take action to ameliorate a very elevated blood creatinine level or, or something of that sort.

0 (28m 48s):
Yeah, this is, but the point you're, you're bringing up is, is also one about the field of medicine, which is that many, not all but many physicians don't take into consideration the outside activities that people are doing. And so it becomes a kind of a plug and play type type way of looking at blood charts. Yeah,

1 (29m 7s):
We, we've done many thousand athletes blood chemistry and we, we, we don't use fir first of all, we never look at disease stuff. That's not what we do. We take people that are healthy and try to optimize performance and blood chemistry is one of the best tools. If you really understand what you're doing there, you can get some incredibly powerful information out of blood chemistry that actually relates to what we're gonna talk to today in terms of measuring e everything from acute to chronic dehydration to sleep deprivation can be identified in in blood chemistry to optimization improvements in nutrition supplementation. There's is a lot you can get there. If people are interested in that field, I would, I'd point them to a gentleman named Dan Garner who, who's just an absolute juggernaut and wizard and blood chemistry for high performance.

1 (29m 53s):
But we, you can get a ton of information from that be if you understand the difference between exactly what you talked about looking for signals of increased risk of cardiovascular events 25 years down the road versus is this the optimal value for high performance in an athlete, which is what our, our database and all of our software and stuff does is is only looking for those things. So I'm gonna talk about some of the biomarkers to look for a little bit later salivary stuff, some blood stuff, but we'll maybe save that part of the conversation for down the road.

0 (30m 21s):
Tell me about different time scales of recovery.

1 (30m 24s):
Sure. This is actually where I was trying to answer your question four and then I got myself way off track, but the reason I brought up the hormetic thing is if you understand that some things in the acute say 24 to 48 hour period look terrible, it's actually fine, right? So this is the stimuli that's causing adaptation. So the reason I brought up the medical exchange there is because you, if you looked at inflammatory markers and, and then you mentioned some of them, you would see that they are highest acute within seconds to minutes to hours after exercise. However, that's exactly the stimuli needed to bring them down chronically.

1 (31m 5s):
Okay? And so chronically meaning maybe in that moment they're elevated and then maybe they're coming down 24 hours later and 48 hours. However, if you were to compare your resting level, say that Monday before you worked out, so your resting level that Monday, the week following the week following that, what you would probably see is your baseline inflammation goes down. And so we gotta be really careful are we talking immediately post exercise man these markers look terrible, maybe my recovery score is awful, et cetera. That's not necessarily a bad thing because what we're luck looking to do is to not only change what's happening today, but we're trying to cause adaptation that may take us weeks or months to actually access.

1 (31m 47s):
I love that you're highlighting this principle because one of the more obvious ones to me now that you've said this is heart rate. Absolutely. If my heart rate goes very, very high during exercise and I do that fairly consistently or even semi consistently, yeah my resting heart rate will actually be quite a bit lower. That's a fantastic example. Really what you're getting at here is this concept where I think it's important to differentiate between adaptation and optimization. Now we hear that word and I use it and most scientists hate it, but it's a good communication tool optimization. If you are optimizing for the current moment, you're almost surely compromising the late adaptation, right?

1 (32m 29s):
If, if I were to say do the thing right now that makes you feel the absolute best in the world and you're like, great, you took a nap and you ate a donut like awesome, you feel amazing but you know it's causing long-term issues. The same can be said on the back end. If you're never choosing things that make you better right now, you're never actually going to see any adaptation. So what what we're really doing with this recovery conversation is playing this game of balancing immediate gratification with the leg gratification and how do we identify how much to do now versus not how do I use a value or a marker whether this is how tired I feel today, how sore I am today versus a score on an app or a a tracking metric.

1 (33m 10s):
Whether this is a blood marker, anything and understand if that's what I need to cause the adaptation I want a week, a month, three months from now. In the case of some of our other athletes, it's even up to four years, right? We're trying to cause adaptations that will get us where we want to get in the Olympics or world championships or World Cup or wherever we're going to be. So that's the framework we have to think about recovery. We, we maybe falsely think about it is I need to maximize my recovery today. And you could do something like take an anti-inflammatory, whether this is a supplementation or a drug or maybe this is ice. Oh cool, that's great. That will enhance your recovery in this moment.

1 (33m 50s):
That'll make you feel better today, probably tomorrow. But what we know is that blocks the signal for adaptation so you're not gonna get the same results, you know, 4, 6, 8 weeks from now. So when we talk about recovery, we have to understand what tool am I using and why. And in order to do that we have to understand what am I training for and what am I trying to maximize. If I am in the middle of a season with an athlete and we are competing tomorrow, I am going to hedge towards acute recovery, right? Because I have to at actuate that performance right now if I am starting the off season, I'm not hedging towards recovery, I'm actually hedging towards adaptation. So we're not going to deploy any of these, especially things like there's evidence that a combination of vitamin C and vitamin E will blunt hypertrophic adaptations because they're anti-inflammatory, the antioxidants, right?

1 (34m 41s):
Other, other studies have shown maybe they don't have an inhibitory effect but they may or may not. The point is conceptually you wanna be careful of what you're trying to optimize for and you have to have that forethought and that alone is gonna dictate your decision making with whether or not, again, you get in the eyes you do things. Now we will cover some tools like massage that are pretty fine to use. You don't have to worry about those blocking long-term adaptation, but others you're gonna wanna be very careful about.

0 (35m 12s):
So this principle that you've laid out for us, which is that there's a set of events that occur during exercise that trigger the adaptation and that sets in motion a number of adaptations that occur during recovery that then give us the exact opposite response to what the trigger was. Exactly. So I'll go back to the heart rate example. Heart rate is close to maximal or maximal. You do that enough times within a short, you know, a week or so or two weeks and your resting heart rate goes down. As I recall a few episodes ago, you said that your maximum heart rate doesn't really change that much. Is that correct? Yes.

0 (35m 51s):
Okay, but your resting heart rate can go down quite a bit. Yep. Is that a general theme? Meaning do we have a more or less set upper limit or ceiling for things like inflammatory markers for heart rate, maybe even things like stress. And what we do when we deliberately trigger stress or a dramatic increase in heart rate or dramatic increase in inflammatory markers is that we are lowering the floor but that the ceiling remains the same.

1 (36m 24s):
It's very dependent upon the marker. So in the case of maximum heart rate, it will not change with the exception of one thing, which is age, age brings it down, training will not change it up in most circumstances. If you look at something like an inflammatory response, I suppose theoretically there is a ceiling though I'm not aware of it. I can tell you right now looking at blood markers of things like creatine kinase. So remember the conversation about metabolism and that we use phospho creatine as one of our primary fuel sources for explosive exercise. Well if we're using phospho, creatine, this creating kinase, now remember kinase are enzymes that that function to break things down for the most part.

1 (37m 5s):
So creat kinase is the enzyme you use to break down creatine. When you do that a lot, then that creatine kinase gets out of muscle and seeps into the blood. Mylo is actually another fantastic marker by the way. Myoglobin is, if you think about hemoglobin being in blood is the molecule that carries oxygen around when it's in the muscle tissue, then it's mild glo, mild meaning muscle and it's the same globulin thing. So there's a bunch of markers you can look at muscle breakdown and one of the things that you can see is creatin kinase level that's elevated after say one bite of exercise and, and you might, it might be up, you know, five or six fold. I've actually seen this number in offensive lineman in the NFL be something like 500 plus fold.

1 (37m 49s):
So even within just one category to the next, that that number can get extraordinarily high. And if you know this is actually one is important point here. If you're paying attention to any mechanistic research or use, you're using that to inform your decision making. You have to be extraordinarily careful of magnitude. And what I mean by that is if if I were to, to be running a, a western blot looking at a signaling protein in, in a muscle, did this activation of this protein turn on mitochondrial biogenesis and I saw that whatever intervention we gave it, whether it was a nutrition thing or a drug or an exercise and I saw that that signaling protein increased by 20%, I would basically assume that to be totally physiologically irrelevant Because in order for that to be important, it totally depends on the marker you're looking at.

1 (38m 37s):
But some markers I might need to see four or five, 600 fold increase before I know that that will actually be enough to be what we call physiologically relevant others if they're up one or 2% that is relevant. And so you really wanna be careful when you're either reading papers or looking at social media stuff. If people are just talking about this marker increase this much, it may not matter. It may be totally irrelevant physiologically. And so you have to, that does also, if you're wondering like how the hell are the all these people, well that's how they can trick you a little bit and what intentionally or not, it could be just they're trying to their best but they don't really understand that area enough. And so that's an important point to pay attention to. So to answer your question again fully, it would be hard to determine if there is truly a maximum level.

1 (39m 23s):
Some things don't wanna move like blood pH, it doesn't really wanna move. The range that you're gonna move from is, you know, like 6.8 to 7.4 and if you get up to like 7.9, like you're probably in big, big, big trouble. Other things again can go up 505,000 fold. And so it, the markers will really determine that answer.

0 (39m 45s):
Well at some point in the future I'd love to continue this discussion around the topic of stress specifically. Yeah. And maybe we will get into that a little bit later today when we get into the use of deliberate cold exposure because that certainly has effects related directly to temperature on tissue. But it certainly has mental effects in terms of raising one's level of perceived

1 (40m 8s):
Pain. It's fun also

0 (40m 10s):
Good. Or some people love it and some people love it for the feeling they get during it. Deliberate cold exposure. Some people only like it for the feeling that they get after it. No, not unlike exercise. Totally. I, I love to train, I love exercise but I know many people who they loathe exercise but they love the feeling afterward. So this will be a theme that we will come back to. Thank you for indulging my interest in that semi tangent. I think it's a relevant tangent if there is such a thing. If you can now return us to the different time scales. Yep. And modes of recovery. Cause I think where we are headed is how to get better at recovery.

1 (40m 47s):
Yep. Let's talk about the tools, let's talk about what to measure and identify for all four of these distinct levels. So level one is what we call overload. And just very quickly what that means is, I did a workout today, the sign and symptom of overload is your fatigued acute performance is down. So I worked out hard right now, if I were to go try to do a maximum effort, I would be reduced in my ability. The recovery period for acute overload is minutes to days, right? That's generally what we call acute overload and that's what we're looking for, right? So we systems should theoretically see that hormetic stressor come back in response, come back bigger, better, more efficient, et cetera.

1 (41m 30s):
If you were to continue training in that state, like most of us do, and say I did a workout today, I had a little bit of acute overload, gonna workout again tomorrow, a little more acute overload, gonna work out the next day. A little more acute overload. Even if you took a day in between, it's that doesn't matter, right? You just continue these acute bouts of insult, then you're gonna be pushing into the absolute golden target, which is what we call functional overreaching. So you have overreached what you can currently do and it results in a functional outcome. And what we mean functionally here is performance is enhanced. And again, performance being whatever you deem it to be, you're stronger, you've enhanced muscle size, your mitochondria has improved, you've whatever the thing is, it's not just a physical performance thing, right?

1 (42m 17s):
Amazing recovery time for functional overreaching is typically a few days to maybe even a week or so. And so typically what we see happen is prior to a competition, individuals will do what we call a taper, which is a reduced training volume for some short period of time. And the re the reason they do that is to, again, actualize is the phrase we here the adaptations. And so you worked hard for six weeks and you know, theoretically the workouts you did 3, 4, 5, 6 weeks ago, once you allow the system to recover will be actualized, which means your performance will be enhanced here. So functional overreaching is the golden target, okay?

1 (42m 57s):
If you were to be at the point of functional overreaching and you continue to train, so it intensified whether this was through intensity, this is through volume, or really as you said earlier, you had something holding back your recovery, it doesn't really matter, right? It's, it's, it's, it's sort of two sides of the same coin. Then you would move into what we call non-functional overreaching. So you've overreached again, but now it is non-functional as in you did not see a positive benefit once recovery allowed. This typically means you have weeks, it takes weeks to come back from, and you basically just get back to baseline. And this is where a lot of folks are who end up in this vicious cycle.

1 (43m 37s):
And so you're like, man, I'm not getting the results I want. I'm going to train harder, I'm not getting the results I want, I'm gonna train harder and harder. But because you've co recovery isn't improved, you just end up in the same spot. So then you train more and you end up the same spot and you end up then just either blowing up or quitting and you're not getting where you want. If you were to continue past that point, you may actually be into what we actually call over training. And that typically is considered to be overtrained if it takes months to recover from. So most people think they're overtrained are really not. You're just probably non functionally overreached. And again, the classic distinction is if you took three or four days off and you felt better, you weren't probably overtrained, you were probably just in this area of non-functional overreaching, you need a little bit of a back off if you, and this has been the case, I've had this happen with gymnasts and a cheerleader and some other things where they take a month off and we're barely seeing them start to come back to their baseline numbers in, in any number of areas.

1 (44m 41s):
Mood, desire to train testosterone, cortisol ratios, bowel markers in a number of areas, physical performance, vertical jump height, like all these things, they just start to get back to baseline. So over true over training is actually quite rare. Non-functional overreaching is much more common and it is a shorter timeframe scale. So when we talk about recovery, those are the four pieces that we're really thinking about. So if you are concerned about, oh, I'm super sore, how do I get less sore? How do I either not be a sore next time I do that same workout or I'm super sore and now how do I recover? Those are playing in that first category of overload and we can certainly talk about how to figure that out.

1 (45m 22s):
But the quick answer is you gotta go back to our previous episodes and just pay attention to the volume intensity recommendations. If you're getting significantly more damage or fatigue in a workout, you probably have increased your volume toolkit too quickly or something else is dragging your stress bucket down. But generally this is a problem of training. You either didn't warm up sufficiently, your fueling strategy is off, which we'll talk about in the next episode, or you violated one of our principles of increasing intensity and volume sort of too quickly. If it's past that and you're getting to a stage where you're just like, I'm feeling beat up all the time, my energy is going down, I'm just not feeling like I'm recovered.

1 (46m 6s):
Now we're in this overreaching stage. So the, the story I kind of tell here always is, a few years ago I was working and my wife Natasha was in the garage training and I'm doing something and like she comes stumbling and she has this look on her eyes and they're like giant, her eyeballs are giant and she's just like wobbling and she's like, I effed up. And I was like, what do you mean you like effed up? And she's just like, I read the program wrong. And she's like, Trump. I'm like, what'd you do? Like she was supposed to be doing 10 sets of three every minute on the minute and she did three sets of 10 every minute on the minute and she was absolutely wrecked. She couldn't move for a few hours afterwards.

1 (46m 47s):
And then for days she's just like, you have to handle the kids. Like, I can't get outta bed, I can't move. So that was like a classic example of, all right, like we don't need to fix recovery here. You're just a dummy and you did the training way too hard too long. Like this is not, we don't have a problem here. So if it's a situation like that, it's generally you just, the program was way off. If it's constantly happening or you're just like, man, like for whatever reason, every once in a while I'm getting really sore or having a really bad performance in these workouts, then we need to go to our other stress bucket, take a look at our allostatic loader allostasis and get figured out what's happening there. So those are the the easy ways to flag acute overload problems.

AG1 (47m 28s):
I'd like to take a brief break and acknowledge our sponsor Athletic Greens. Athletic Greens is a vitamin mineral probiotic and adaptogen drink designed to help you meet all of your foundational nutritional needs. I've been taking Athletic Greens daily since 2012, so I'm delighted that they're a sponsor of this podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens, and the reason I still take Athletic Greens once or twice a day, is that it helps me meet all of my foundational nutritional needs. That is, it covers my vitamins, my minerals, and the probiotics are especially important to me. Athletic Greens also contains adaptogens, which are critical for recovering from stress, from exercise, from work or just general life. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs and they'll give you year supply of vitamin D three K two. Again, if you'd like to try Athletic Greens, go to athletic greens.com/huberman to claim the special offer.

1 (48m 21s):
I'm happy that you pointed out the distinction between functional overreaching, overtraining and being overtrained. I think one common mistake that people make in thinking about biology generally is that they think in terms of nouns and adjectives and not verbs. Amazing. I love that so much.

0 (48m 38s):
You know, b biology is a collection of processes or processes depending on who you are and where you live and who you trained with. Being over trained is a state that in many ways is an adjective. You're overtrained, I'm overtrained. It's like saying, you know, I'm an American, I'm a, you know, Czechoslovakian, whatever it happens to be. Right? And in many ways people do start to associate with an identity, at least a transient identity, and they start making all sorts of decisions it sounds like, about what sorts of verbs they will and will not engage in. Whereas I think if we look at things as processes and we assign verbs to them, then we can say, okay, I'm functionally overreaching or I'm truly over training, which is a matter of degrees.

0 (49m 30s):
Correct. Right. Or under training for that matter. I'm not, I'm reaching, but I'm not functionally reaching, it's just, it's just performance. And you know, just as with the nervous system won't change unless you give it a reason to. This is the reason why if you can perform something perfectly or speak a language perfectly, there's, there's no rewiring of the nervous system. This myth that we've all been told that every experience rewires your nervous system, it's different now than it was two seconds ago. That's a, that's a ridiculous illogical statement. We know that's not true. If your nervous system can perform something, it has no reason to change and it

1 (50m 0s):
Won't muscle's the same way. This is why you have to progressively overload. You have to learn something new or challenge your muscle to do something new. It's same

0 (50m 8s):
Thing. So in the example that you gave with your wife doing this workout that turned out to be far more strenuous, she had functionally overreach in some sense. She might have been over-training or heading in the direction of over-training, but the mistake would be to assume that she was over trained right? As a kind of, it's almost becomes a bit of a, a state or a character assignment as opposed to a verb. And in any case, there's no perfect way to describe this. We're talking about nouns and adjectives and yeah, and we're also talking about verbs, but I think the verbs are really anchored down in processes and things that we do, actions that we can take. And so if I may, I'd like to just highlight this, this idea of shifting one's thinking towards verb actions rather than labels on the state that we happen to be in or the person that we happen to be, right?

0 (50m 58s):
Sometimes it even does become kind of characterological in the way that people describe it. And so I have to believe that there is something called over training that overtraining is real in other words, but that we don't ever really know if we're overtrained.

1 (51m 15s):
You nailed it.

0 (51m 16s):
There's, there's no, you know, it's not like a red flag, you know, shoots up outta your shoulder and it's like, I'm overtrained. You know, it's, so in doing so, I hope that we can start thinking about some of the verbs, the actions that we can all take in order to ensure that we stimulate progressive overload one way or another. And at the same time that we don't fall into these bins of character assignment where suddenly we decide that we need to do x, like take a month off or something like that. Because I, I'm beginning to realize from our discussion that that's exactly the wrong way to go.

1 (51m 48s):
Those are fantastic points. I I wanna make sure it is clear that there is no clinical diagnoses for overtraining. There are no standards, there's no test or a blood panel you can pull that would actually identify you in that state. So your, your distinction here, Andrew, of these are verbs and rather than ounce is, is so wonderful. Cause that is exactly the case. The only way we could really come retroactively diagnose one with over training is if again, we had, you did weeks of recovery and you only got back to baseline. So we can't do it in the moment. I can't take a single test. There's no subjective marker or anything that says you are overtrained. It is simply you are probably training and we need to reverse that quickly.

1 (52m 32s):
Or in the case of the step before, you are probably function non functionally overreaching. And if you continue to do this, you'll probably enter into a stage where this is your over training and we need to come back. So that's an important thing to let people know is there's no one thing we can actually point to that says, you are here, you are not a noun, this is a burb.

0 (52m 53s):
So what are some tools that we can use to enhance our recovery?

1 (52m 56s):
Yep. Let's start off with that acute overload phase. So in other words, I just did a workout and I'm feeling awful, or I just did one, two days ago and I'm super sore. How do I get rid of that right now? Well, there's a couple of things you can do immediately after your workout and then others that are maybe more actionable a day later or two days later. And we'll just cover handful of them. We'll do some nutrition and hydration and supplementation. In the next episode, I'm gonna cover everything else. Not in that category right now. So a couple of things. Number one, you can actually start kickstart that recovery process at the end of your current training session. And I guess I should say it this way, I strongly suggest you start this recovery process immediately after the workout.

1 (53m 41s):
You've mentioned earlier about this idea of you gotta get a really high peak of stress to cause that adaptation. But I actually didn't explain that correctly cuz what has to happen is you need that extremely high peak, but you then you have to be met with an extremely sharp recovery back down. And so you know, you've talked about this before in some of your neuroplasticity stuff and in terms of what has to happen that caused the insult and then you immediately need to be able to recover to make sure that that causes changes in the brain. Same thing happens here. So we need a really sharp and high inflammatory response and then if you do not meet it with an immediate recovery period, the signal won't be there to maximize your results.

1 (54m 23s):
So what's that mean? You can actually do a couple of things. Number one is actually listening to slow paced music. There's evidence to suggest fast paced music may slow down your recovery and slow pace would actually enhance it. So if you just change from, you know, your maximum, get you up and get going music during the workout to a slower, lower cadence that will help you kickstart the idea of a similar note. You can also use what we call down regulation breathing. You could do them in conjunction or one or the other, whichever is up to you. So my personal favorite method here is somewhere between three to 10 minutes of finishing your training session laying down.

1 (55m 3s):
I'd like to be in that position. You could certainly do it in the lotus position, but I think laying on your back is generally more effective. Personal preference there no science, I like the eyes being covered, getting into this dark, quiet sort of area. And then just breathing through your nose in a structured cadence, there's a lot of different things you can try. An easy example that's just box breathing. So, and you can imagine box having four squares. So what you're going to do is inhale for somewhere between like three to eight seconds and then whatever number you choose, you keep that same tempo. And so let's say you chose to do a five second inhale, that's gonna take you up vertically and then horizontally for your box is a five second hold and then a five second exhale and then a five second hold.

1 (55m 47s):
And you just need to repeat that for the time domain. Now I typically honestly don't use a timer. You'll actually notice a lot of people will like fall asleep or get really close to falling asleep in this period. You could do a triangle version of that where you do an inhale, hold, exhale, and then go right back into your inhale or up. There's a bunch of different tricks you can try here. You need to play around and see what actually works best for you. 10 minutes is probably better, but if you can just at least give me three, that'll work. If you're really, really resistant, you can actually do that just in the shower. And so if you're gonna finish your workout, get in the shower again, just close your eyes in the shower, give me me three minutes of focused relaxation breathing and that will accelerate the recovery process.

0 (56m 29s):
I love it and I particularly love it because my laboratory works on stress and respiration. Okay, breathing and the interactions between the two. And I'll just mention a result that was just accepted for publication, so should be out by the time this happens. So there's, thank you. This is the beautiful work of not me directly, although it took place in my lab, but as we know, it's the student of postdocs who really do the heavy lifting always of Dr. Maise Alban in my lab's. A phenomenal researcher that showed that a short period of five minutes of box breathing of exactly the type that you described were cyclic sighing. So two inhales followed by an extended exhale to lungs empty.

0 (57m 11s):
Ideally the inhales are done through the nose, the exhales are done through the mouth, although it could all be done through the nose or the mouth for that matter. But probably nose, nose for inhale, inhale mouth for exhale or in inhales through the nose and, and excel through the nose. Cyclic sighing as we refer to it, done for five minutes. Both of those produce very significant decreases in resting heart rate. The over time will increase things like heart rate variability and so on and so forth. So provided that there are extended exhales, it seems like the calming response and the reduction in overall stress occurs, the only thing that really sends things in the other direction would be something like cyclic hyperventilation, I'm sure Absolutely.

0 (57m 57s):
You've observed that. And interestingly, when we had people just do five minutes of meditation, which during which of course they are breathing, but they're just allowing their breathing to progress however it happens to be in that moment or moments across the five minutes there were reductions in the same sorts of markers of stress that I described, but not as significant as breathing. So I love the Brock's breathing tool postworkout and there's some other alternatives there too that I just mentioned, but I think people greatly underestimate the potency of breathing for shifting one's nervous system function away from stress or if one wants toward more alertness and stress.

1 (58m 38s):
I actually have a couple questions for you on that. Sure. I think the audience would appreciate this. How long were those boxes? Does it just user selected?

0 (58m 47s):
Great question. So we use the carbon dioxide tolerance test. Amazing. In order for people to determine how long the different sides of the box should be. And you covered carbon dioxide tolerance test in a previous episode, we can provide a link to that clip in the show note captions, but as you point out, it involves a long extended exhale to lungs empty. And of course people could sit with lungs empty, but they have to accurately re faithfully, as we say, report how long it took them to empty their lungs. We use that as a, as a gauge. Typically if it takes, if people go to lungs empty in 20 seconds or less, I believe I have to go back to the paper and look, but I believe that the duration for each of the sides of the boxes as it were, was somewhere between two and three seconds.

0 (59m 32s):
If they had a CO2 discard time of anywhere from 20 seconds up to about 40, 45 seconds, we used it, the sides of the box were I believe between four and six seconds. And then for people longer than who could discard their air over a period of a minute or more, we used a box duration that is inhale hold exhale, hold duration of somewhere between, I believe it was seven or maybe it was eight and as long as 11 or 12 seconds. Yeah, those numbers, you get your kind of free diver types who can really do this, who are really well trained for this sort of thing. The, don't quote me exactly on those numbers, but that the, that was approximate

1 (1h 0m 13s):
Th those lineup exactly with what, what we've done. So i, I believe it's, it's gonna be close within seconds of non-important distinction is it's gonna be close enough. So that's great. And that was, it took them, what, six weeks before

0 (1h 0m 25s):
They noticed. So this study was done over the period of a month and then when they were swapped into a new pattern of breathing condition or meditation condition, and this was all done in, in the natural world as we say, they were wearing whoop bands that we were getting heart rate, heart rate variability, sleep data, subjective data about mood, et cetera. So there were a lot of measures, but this was more than a hundred subjects out in the wild of life. I love it. And we tried as best we could to track life stress events and exercise and things like that that was harder to control outside the laboratory. Really all those results speak to exactly what you're describing here, which is that deliberate respiration that involves controlled holds and exhales really has a dramatic and very immediate impact on reducing our levels of stress.

1 (1h 1m 13s):
That that's wonderful. I'm not surprised at all with your findings. And what's really interesting about that is you mentioned how the exhalation portion is primarily responsible for the down regulation and that's actually goes back to our previous endurance conversation, which is that in general, at rest, at non altitude increases in CO2 are the primary driver for ventilation. And so what that generally means is inhales are associated with an uptick in sympathetic state and exhales are associated with a uptick of parasympathetic state. This is generally why folks will do things like exhale and finish that exhale right before they perform a very high precision neurological task.

1 (1h 1m 59s):
So if you're going to say aim at a target and shoot, you're going to exhale fully and then almost always execute that movement at the end of the exhale because that's when you, in your highest parasympathetic state and lowest drive for ventilation. I have to say I'm not surprised at all that you guys found that there's actually other data that point to individuals, particularly after endurance training that can get back down to baseline heart rate is going to be correlated with who gets the most actual results of their training. Said that if you take a bunch of individuals and put them through an an endurance training program and if you measure how quickly they can get back down to baseline after each workout in general, those folks that are better at that are going to see greater improvements in performance at the end of your say four or six or eight week training block.

1 (1h 2m 48s):
And so there's a little bit of causation and correlation there that we have to untie, but I think it's enough to say, Hey, if you invest these three and in your case your, your study was five minutes, it's only going to enhance recovery. You have a likelihood of increasing the results from your training. And now we also have additional benefits like being able to transition more appropriately into our next task, going to work, going to see family, whatever the thing is. And it's, it's a nice close to, I asked you to be in a high sympathetic state body and I asked you to perform and to be under stress. I gave you recovery and now we're ready to transition to our next thing so that we don't take that exercise energy, if you will, into our next task, which may or may not want me in a sympathetic drive state.

0 (1h 3m 39s):
So if somebody is sore following a workout, either locally sore in a muscle group or group of muscles, maybe in their legs or chest or torso or maybe their whole body is sore as it sometimes is the case, what are some tools that they can implement in order to accelerate the, I want to call it moving out of that soreness, but it's really, as we know the alleviation of the soreness through a bunch of different processes, what are the most effective tools to push back on that soreness and dissipate it?

1 (1h 4m 12s):
Yeah, absolutely. First of all, it's not lactate. That's just a really important thing that we still hear people talk about is, you know, your sore 24 hours later, you gotta do this thing to get the lactate out of there. And as we talked about in the metabolism conversation and episode that that is not the cause of fatigue and it's certainly not the cause of soreness. So not an actionable tip there, but just a pet peeve of mine when I hear people say that, that I get irritated. So we can maybe end that conversation, strategies, tools, here's what you can do, you can actually wear compression gear that will help a little bit. There's a decent amount of evidence suggesting if you just were to, you know, put some tighter fitting clothes on leisure wear or compression gear if you have it, that that can actually prevent a little bit of soreness from occurring.

1 (1h 4m 57s):
So if you're in the case of poor Natasha and you realize you've just done way, way, way too much, or you went and hung out with your bow hunting friend and you trained way too hard and you realize, oh my goodness, I'm gonna be very sore here, you can immediately put on compression gear and weigh that really for as long as possible.

0 (1h 5m 12s):
What, what are some examples of compression gear? I've seen people on the plane with those high, high socks. Yeah,

1 (1h 5m 18s):
I mean anything that you wear compression gear for what you do for exercise. So whether these are just, you know, compression pants and leggings, tight fitting leggings, whether this is a long sleeved shirt that's like a rash guard you would wear in, you know, jujitsu or surfing or something like that. As long as it's tight fitting, it doesn't have to be much more than that you can wear, yeah, I suppose you could get the socks would be great, but we generally just tell our athletes they've put on, you know, long sleeve compression shirts that they would wear for their training and then long compression leggings and that'd be fine.

0 (1h 5m 50s):
Can people apply these compression garb after training and still get some of the positive effects?

1 (1h 5m 58s):
Yeah, I have not seen any evidence to suggest that that would block adaptation. That may be the case. I, I am not aware of those studies if that happens, but I certainly know that the information suggests it can hands a little bit of muscle recovery.

0 (1h 6m 10s):
But ideally one knows if they are about to do a workout that could trigger a lot of soreness. Yep. And then wears compression gear of some sort to offset that and if so, does it have to be local to the muscle groups that you're working on? The reason I asked about the socks is my understanding of the socks, the, the compression socks people wear on the plane is that it's going to shift the patterns of blood flow, not just in the lower legs but all over the body.

1 (1h 6m 34s):
Yeah, you're probably gonna wanna focus it on the actual exercising tissue though. Actually that's a really good question. I don't know the answer of whether or not you did an upper body workout, only wore lower body compression gear if that would actually help. That's a great question. That may have been done, I don't know, but I don't know the answer to that in general, we just tell people like where, where the whole thing as much as you can, I actually am not concerned that you're wearing it during your workout. It is something you could put on afterwards or even wear just a little bit of compression the other day. We've actually did a really fun study. I collaborated with Bill Kramer who's, you know, sports scientist of the year award is the Bill Kramer award, if that gives you an indication out of University of Connecticut as well as with Lee Brown.

1 (1h 7m 17s):
So two lifetime achievement award winners and we, we put people on a, a plane in stores Connecticut and flew them to Cal State Fullerton, so a cross-country flight and some of them got to wear compression gear during the flight and others did not. And then they landed in California, did a training bout put 'em back on the plane, went back to stores and I think they did another training bout when they got back there. There was a lot of data that came outta that paper. But one of the things that was clear is the compression group was effective at handling some of the blood related coagulation and other issues associated with long flights and particularly athletic performance. So that's actually a sneaky little insider trick that I'll use a lot with people, particularly with athletes that are traveling is just where that compression gear on the plane.

1 (1h 8m 2s):
So you, you talked about that and that sort of wrung that study to mind that as another effective strategy. So compression gear in general as well as particularly on a plane, basically the tighter you can get it, the better without obviously making your hands purple and being uncomfortable and things like that. So it doesn't have to be overly tight. Anything will work and, and probably help. So I'm also doing that personally anytime I'm taking a flight like that as much as I can just to feel a little better when I get there.

0 (1h 8m 28s):
So what are some other methods that we can use to alleviate acute soreness?

1 (1h 8m 32s):
Well if we continue down this same theme, which is saying, okay, we use some sort of pressure manipulation to enhance recovery if compression is one strategy, you can also use things like compression boots or garments and these are nomadic devices that will, you know, pump air outside you and compress back and forth. There's any number of devices that will do this. You can also use the physical hand, so this would be massage and body work. They're all really working as best we can tell on the same mechanisms which are effectively moving fluid in and out of the tissue as well as potentially enhancing blood flow, increasing capitalization and which is going to only get nutrients in and waste products out.

1 (1h 9m 17s):
So you can kind of pick and choose based upon your budget preferences, availability, timing, things like that. So those are all effective strategies outside of that really is the next largest category, which is now thermal. And and so far in this discussion we've mentioned cold water immersion and I talked about in the hypertrophy section how you would not wanna do that immediately post exercise, which would be getting into cold water or an ice bath if you're trying to grow muscle mass. Having said that, there is good evidence showing that cold water immersion specifically is effective at reducing muscle soreness. So it is a fair consideration and it's a classic example of how there are no free passes in physiology.

1 (1h 10m 4s):
Nothing is always good or always bad. It's always about what are you willing to give up and versus what you're willing to get. And the case of like cold water immersion, you may be thinking, yeah, I might blunt some of the hypertrophic adaptations, but if you're in that phase of training where you're actually trying to push more towards optimization in that moment rather than long-term adaptation, then a an ice math might be a great choice. In addition, if you fall into a scenario like Natasha did and you realize like, I'm just so unbelievably sore, this might cost me three or four or five or six days of training, it might be worth it for you to accelerate that recovery process by a couple of days so that you don't miss so much training. So it's, it's just a, it's an algorithm, it's an equation.

1 (1h 10m 44s):
What am I looking for again, if I'm in season or trying to compete or if I have just done way, way, way too much exercise and I'm really insignificant pain, you would probably be willing to give up some small percentage of eventual muscle growth after a single session to get out of pain. So of the cold strategies, cold water immersion is clearly the best approach rather than cold air or some other tactics. So a cold shower is probably not enough here. You really do wanna be either in moderately cold, this is maybe 40 to 50 degree water for probably north of 15 minutes or you can be in sub 40 for as little as maybe five minutes to get some of the effect there. And there's been a number of studies, so I'm sort of summarizing a bunch of that kind of into one rather than going through them point by point.

0 (1h 11m 29s):
The numbers you just threw out, which I'm assuming are fahrenheit, seem seem really cold to me, right? Uncomfortably cold

1 (1h 11m 40s):
Ab. Absolutely.

0 (1h 11m 41s):
So I always recommend that people ease into it as a protocol overall that they not immediately go to 35 degree cold water if they've never done it before. That said, once people are comfortable being uncomfortable, because I always answer the question, how cold should it be exactly? Would you agree that it should be very, very cold, so much so that you really, really want to get out, but that you are able to stay in safely. Whatever that value happens to be, you

1 (1h 12m 9s):
Absolutely need to be safe. Having said that, we have actually in our X B T retreats put dozens if not hundreds of people at this point immediately into the sub 35 degree water their first time ever and done, you know, three minutes, multiple rounds in a session so they can handle it. But you don't need to go that crazy if you don't want, you kind of have to play a game, right? Do you wanna be really, really cold for a short amount of time or do you wanna be like kind of cold for a longer amount of time? Really the only mistake you can make is doing something like, you know, 65 degree water, which for most people is not very comfortable and doing, you know, five or 10 minutes,

0 (1h 12m 46s):
It's just not gonna

1 (1h 12m 46s):
Be effective. It's probably not gonna be effective. So if you're like, man, 35 is is absolutely crazy and you wanna do 55 degree water and there's literature in that area, but it's going to say you need to probably be there, you know, somewhere almost surely north of 10 minutes. And some of it will actually show you need to be in there like well north of 20 to 30 minutes. So for my money I would rather go really, really cold and get it done in five minutes. But personal preference on this one, you can also make it a little bit easier on yourself. There is not nearly as much evidence, but there is some on contrast stuff. So this is when you go cold, hot and sort of back and forth, there are no really good rules in terms of how much should you go, how many rounds, how long and cold, how long and hot.

1 (1h 13m 30s):
Again, there have been a couple of studies but, and obviously those studies use numbers but that doesn't mean those have been tested to see what, what are optimal, which is a very big difference. So you can really just kind of play that by feel hot is good for recovery. You just have to be careful because you are going to put more blood flow in the area and so you, you may walk outta there with some additional acute swelling, which is then gonna put greater pressure on there. So you have to kind of play with that. I personally really like hot for recovery. I will feel maybe not great in that moment, but the next day I tend to feel really, really good. In addition, if I wake up the next morning and I'm really, really hurting and, and I'm super stiff, a hot bath will will help that quite a bit.

1 (1h 14m 14s):
So you can play with some of those protocols. Again, you don't have to do ice, there's absolutely no requirement to do so. It is just an option if you're interested.

0 (1h 14m 23s):
Yeah, the studies of Dr. Susanna Solberg

1 (1h 14m 26s):
Sure, yeah.

0 (1h 14m 27s):
Are not directly aimed at alleviating soreness or recovery. They're more about increasing thermal capacity by a storage of brown adipose tissue, not the blubbery fat, but the stuff around the clavicles and around the heart that help you generate body heat at rest and metabolism and so on. And the numbers there that she's come up with again, have not been tested against all the possible derivations, just like with breathing we did five minute sessions, but who knows, maybe a minute would've been equally effective. We just, there are constraints on these sorts of studies, but the values that she's come up with, which seem to be good thresholds for making sure that an adaptation response is triggered by heat and cold is it ends up being 57 minutes per week total of uncomfortable but safe heat.

0 (1h 15m 12s):
Yeah. In that case sauna and that can be all in one session or breaking it up into a couple of sessions on the same day or, or different days and then 11 minutes per week of cold either in one single session or multiple sessions. Again, one could do more, one could break that up over, you know, multiple days or do it all in one day or do it all in one, you know, an hour in the sauna and then 11 minutes in the colder vice versa. Although that seems a little bit extreme, especially for the uninitiated. But those are the numbers that have been studied. But as you point out, there are not a lot of really thorough studies examining different cold protocols according to temperature by time requirements. So there is a bit of subjective feel required to establish a routine.

1 (1h 15m 51s):
And I, I would actually say this is another time to reemphasize something we talked about at the beginning of our conversation, which is that pain itself is not a defined outcome. It's heavily influenced by your perception. And so if you don't feel like they work for you, they won't work. If you feel like they work fantastic, they do. So it's a challenging field to get really objective data on. So there's always going to be a little bit of subjective nature to some of these things. I, I can tell you anecdotally, we've used hot and cold contrast for a long time with athletes. Some love it, some don't care for it and, and everything in between. So it's one of those things where I never mandate it.

1 (1h 16m 33s):
Yeah, of course I can't mandate anything for anyone I work with, but I'm never, you know like if, hey, are you interested? Great, you're struggling in this area, do you wanna try this? You did and you liked it, great. You're struggling in this area and you tried it, you didn't love it. Okay fine. And I'm not, we'll we'll find other routes as we we'll get into. There's a lot of ways to enhance recovery. This is only one and it hasn't even really come down to stopping the problem in the first place. We're not, we're just treating symptoms, which is first line of defense, but you really need to go back and figure out why it's happening to begin with as a solution. These are just different, again, acute symptom management tactics.

0 (1h 17m 11s):
One final point about deliberate cold exposure, I think worth mentioning is one of the reasons the shower is effective but not nearly as effective as cold water immersion or immersion in ice up to the neck is simply because of the reason you stayed before, which is that most showers are not going to get that cold. Yeah, you're not gonna get down, you know, into the sub forties. Also cold showers haven't really been studied that much. They have, but not nearly as much as immersion. And people always ask why. I just think about the challenges of studying cold water exposure in the shower where you can't really control for bingo how much of the body is covered, whether or not the head stays under different sized bodies, et cetera.

0 (1h 17m 51s):
Whereas when people come into a laboratory, they can get into a cold water tank. We know where the neck is, we know where the chin is and we can make sure that people's arms and legs are underneath. But with cold shower, sure you can make everyone face away or toward the shower, but it's really tricky. And for all the variations that that were described that said, would you agree that if one wants to use deliberate cold exposure, that cold shower is better than nothing and cold immersion in circulating cold water or ice bath is better than than cold shower?

1 (1h 18m 22s):
Yeah. What I would actually say, if you're looking for recovery for muscle soreness, I would say cold shower is probably doing very little because you're not going to be able to get enough cold water onto any muscle besides basically your head. So maybe you could try a cold bath and so you'd at least get some surface area coverage. But yeah, if you want to use cold shower for all the other awesome reasons, the cold shower, that's totally great. But if you're trying to use that to recover your low back and glutes from being sore from training in a good way, it's probably not gonna do much. The the immersion would be there. You actually also hit a sneaky other point, which is if you can't get your water super cold, just make the water move. So if you have jets and stuff, you can turn on anyone who's tried this and if you're like, okay, I can do a 40 degree bath, awesome.

1 (1h 19m 8s):
Try 60 when the water's moving, right?

0 (1h 19m 9s):
Because you break up the thermal layer, normally you have a little thin layer of Yeah. Of water that you're heating up. You break that up, it's a whole new world. Yeah, absolutely. So being very still in the cold water is actually the weaker way to go. Correct that you can make your face stoic but make your body circulate some water around you. As long as we're on this. Maybe just one more point about heat. I've certainly used sauna, wet sauna, dry sauna, steam, soma, saunas, excuse me, jacuzzis can work pretty well. Yep. Males, if you are looking to conceive in the 60 days following, so following sauna or hot tub, do realize that it, that both those approaches do severely limit the number of motel sperm substantially.

0 (1h 19m 53s):
So for people that are not trying to conceive, don't think that this works reliably enough that you could use it as a form of contraception. Yeah. But, but for people that are trying to conceive, it really is detrimental to, to sperm health. Right? And so for that reason, some people bring an ice pack and put, put it on the groin or near the groin when they go in, but, which is hard to do in a hot tub than a sauna. So here we're getting into the fine points or crude points if you will, pun intended. But, but the idea is that we, we wouldn't want anyone to approach these techniques and compromise their other life goals. I inadvertently, I

1 (1h 20m 27s):
Was not allowed anywhere near these things when we were at that stage of life. I'll, I'll just say the Natasha put an xna on me hanging out with Laird. So

0 (1h 20m 35s):
Oh, going in, going in the sauna.

1 (1h 20m 37s):
Like no, for those reasons she's like, you're not going in, you're not going none of the stuff and I just had to wait.

0 (1h 20m 41s):
Right. He, he and sperm have a, have a relationship but it's not one that's positive for the sperm. Right.

Inside Tracker (1h 20m 45s):
I'd like to take a brief break to acknowledge our sponsor inside Tracker. Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health and wellbeing can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. One issue with a lot of blood tests and DNA tests out there however, is that you get information back about various levels of lipids and hormones and metabolic factors, et cetera, but you don't know what to do with that information. Inside Tracker makes knowing what to do with all that information exceedingly easy. They have a personalized platform that lets you see what your specific numbers are of course, but then also what sorts of behavioral dos and don'ts, what sorts of nutritional changes, what sorts of supplementation would allow you to bring those levels into the ranges that are optimal for you. If you'd like to try inside tracker, you can visit inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off any of inside tracker's plans. Again, that's inside tracker.com/huberman to get 20% off.

0 (1h 21m 48s):
Are there ways to combine the various types of stimuli that you described for inducing recovery? You, you talked about breathing based tools, which while they could adjust and indeed do adjust oxygen and carbon dioxide ratios and et cetera, I'm guessing the major effect of those on recovery is going to be neural, it's gonna be deliberate calming of the nervous system. More sympathetic based as you,

1 (1h 22m 14s):
As you mentioned. Absolutely, yeah, most

0 (1h 22m 15s):
Definitely. And then you talked about some movement-based and touch-based approaches which will movement circulate, certainly will circulate blood but also will generate contractions of the muscles. Yep. Right. Which maybe if indeed, again it still speculation if indeed some of the soreness is due to excessive stretch or swelling at the stretch ends of the, of the muscles that would make sense. So movement and touch and then thermal. Are there ways to, to combine these that are more effective or maybe even synergistic?

1 (1h 22m 44s):
Yeah, I suppose you could throw on some compression garments, put on a pneumatic compression device and sit in the sauna while you down regulate your breath like that, that would be fine. Quite honestly though, you probably don't need to maximize all of them. We were joking, you could probably go for a light swim while regulating your breathing in cold water. You would get the compression from the cold water and, and you'd be in a good spot. So you could certainly do that. The reality of it is I generally look for some physical approach and then some holistic approach of the breath work basically. So I want breath and then something else. If you knock those two things out, you're in a good spot. So that could be breath while you're in thermal stress.

1 (1h 23m 28s):
So just controlling and doing the downregulation stuff. You have to also remember ice is a stressor and I'll actually show you some data here in a second about how that actually can enhance systemic recovery. Although it won't happen in the, in the acute minutes. In fact it's gonna take at least 30 to 60 minutes and then you'll eventually see a rebound effect. But acutely it's going to make you actually more sympathetic, which is going the other direction. Heat can do the opposite or it can actually drive you up. So it's a little bit dependent upon how you respond, what time of day and how you're using. So in general, I guess combining them is if you need it, depending on what you have and what's available.

1 (1h 24m 10s):
So perhaps you don't have a sauna but you can take a hot bath, great. Maybe you have some percussion device, some tool and you can use that but you don't have a sauna. Amazing. I don't have ice bath, they think. So I think rather than thinking about an optimal combination of them, I would say just use a couple of the tactics based on what you have and what is easily available in your situation.

0 (1h 24m 35s):
I'd love for you to teach us about some of the methods for longer form recovery as it relates to overreaching and over training.

1 (1h 24m 42s):
Sure. You wanna think about this in a couple of phases. Phase one is to try to prevent it from happening in the first place in terms of training load, you're gonna just go back to our previous episodes where we talk, give you specific instructions for how much to increase your volume and intensity per week, et cetera. The other thing you can do then is do some monitoring and I'll, I'll go over some different tools, some cost-free ones as well as some, some higher tech logically demanding ones to monitor to see if it's actually happening. And then the third approach here is what if this has already occurred? I figured it out, I'm, so how do I get back out of that hole? So I would like to just sort of tackle these one by one in order and and talk about what's happening, what tools you can use and why they're going to work.

1 (1h 25m 23s):
All right, so anytime we're talking about fatigue management here, most people are aware of these terms because if you have any sort of technology, you're probably getting some sort of readiness score or recovery score or strain depending on which app or watch or tech you have. You have a little bit of vernacular change. If you're in the sport performance world, you might be looking at things again like load or a GPS tracking and monitoring and really all of it is, is doing the same thing. It's trying to either one, predict a problem is going to happen in the future and then placing restrictions upon you so that you don't run into that situation.

1 (1h 26m 4s):
The other thing it's possibly doing is identifying a drop in physiology or performance and then saying we need to get you out of this hole. That's really what's happening. And so when we think of the first one, just imagine a scenario like a mileage limitation pitch count in baseball. And what has happened there is is you know, individuals in those fields have looked and said, hey, what we notice is people who throw, say more than a hundred pitches in a game tend to start losing effectiveness and increased injury rate. Therefore we're predicting the next time you go to play, if you cross that threshold, we start having an increased risk of negative consequences. So therefore we're going to cap your, in this case, pitching volume at that hundred pitches per game or whatever the case.

1 (1h 26m 49s):
Same thing with running, et cetera, et cetera. So you could just simply do that and there's actually really cool data coming out now on sport performance stuff. Looking at things like Im using GPS trackers and trying to identify even position by position specific recommendations for how much distance you should cover in a practice in a trending session so that you can say, hey these positions don't cross this threshold, these positions don't cross this threshold in basketball and tennis and, and all kinds of things like that. That's not probably extremely applicable to many of the listeners right now, but it is still conveying the idea that if we understand where we break then we can stop ourselves from getting there in the first place.

1 (1h 27m 33s):
The functional example here is just thinking about basic things like where do I start my training program and then how do I progress it? And we've already covered those numbers. In either case though, you want to have three markers that you're paying attention to. If you're concerned you're getting into an overreaching phase or potentially gonna lead to over-training or you want to get out, it's three unique things. Number one, we're gonna look for some sort of performance metric, right? So this could be your times are going down your, your squatting numbers, your your power is going down, any of these things. So it's gotta be an actual performance. Number two, some sort of physiology. And so I wanna see something happening with resting heart rate.

1 (1h 28m 14s):
Some biomarker is moving heart rate variability, some other measure that is not influenced by you. And the beauty of using biological markers are if we contrast that to like performance and I said okay, here's our performance test. Every day you come in you're gonna do a vertical jump and if one day you come in, all of a sudden your vertical jump is super low, I might think, Ooh man, maybe we're starting to overreach. You also could be feeling lazy that day and just not of jump very high on purpose cause you didn't wanna work out. The beauty of biomarkers are you don't get to manipulate them like that, they don't care. There's a downside to it, which is maybe they're just indirect markers, right?

1 (1h 28m 56s):
And so I'm not telling you biological markers are better than performance markers. What I'm saying is you wanna look at both, all right? In fact you wanna look at our third category as well, which is some sort of symptomology. And so am I, am I having a symptom of overreaching? Am I seeing a performance sacrament? And then am I seeing a biological marker as well? If you see all three of these popping up, you have reason to believe you've reached some overreaching. Now what you have not identified yet is if that is functional overreaching, non-functional overreaching are true over training. And remember you shouldn't be feeling great after every training session you're trying to cause adaptation.

1 (1h 29m 37s):
And until you back off maybe even weeks or months later to actualize the adaptation and get that super compensation and performance increase, you're gonna have to invest a little bit. So you're gonna go in the hole. Any sport performance coach is gonna look at numbers throughout the year and say, yeah, yeah, when we first start training in preparation for the season, we are going to see a drop in performance that day, that week. That's part of the plan though, right? That's the stress you're trying to accumulate. So you wanna see all three of those markers, you just want to pay attention to a couple of things. How long are they down for a day? Three days, seven days, 15 days, et cetera. If you're seeing a performance drop in a day and I am far away from from performance, so the day that I wanna peak for I'm not gonna do anything different.

1 (1h 30m 26s):
If I see two days in a row drop performance, I'm not worried. If I see more than probably in, in my opinion five days in a row of decrement, then I might start paying attention. If you're in season though, or close to competition or whatever that thing means to you and you see more than a couple of days in a row of dropping, then you might actually want to take some some steps to mitigate that. So it really is important you understand again, what are we trying to do? Are we trying to cause adaptation? Are we trying to cause adaptation? And I, I have a, a very specific example of all this we can run through here in a second and then of course a a bunch of tools to to pull you outta those phases.

1 (1h 31m 5s):
But that's, that's fundamentally what we're trying to do here. I would encourage you again, don't be too reactive and responsive to any one measure. I'm gonna cover a whole bunch of 'em in a second, but you can get lost in in different things cuz they all have pros and cons and so I know it's simple to just look at one score on your watch and make your decisions because of that or check your app, but you really wanna be careful of doing that. You're gonna probably lead yourself in the wrong direction more often than you're gonna help yourself.

0 (1h 31m 35s):
I'm curious as to why when we overreach too much or too often or we are over training, that performance is diminished because on the face of it, it's kind of obvious you're overreaching, you're over training, so performance is diminished, but that's completely circular. You hear about things like adrenal fatigue and adrenal burnout. Well it turns out adrenal burnout doesn't even really exist. Absolutely not. I mean there is is such a thing as adrenal insufficiency syndrome, but of course you know these phrases like burnout, adrenal burnout over training, they're thrown around, you know, as much as words like gaslighting and obsessive compulsive, you know, are without any real clinical definition or there are clinical definitions but people aren't obeying them when they use the language.

0 (1h 32m 20s):
I do want to acknowledge however what is absolutely true, which is that overreaching too much too often over training these can degrade performance. But mechanistically speaking, what's going on? Because I think if once we understand what's going on mechanistically, then I think we can all look at tools, whether or not it's breathing movement, compression, thermal, psychological, motivational, et cetera, and have a much clearer sense as to what's going to work best and what likely won't work.

1 (1h 32m 53s):
I love this question so much because as I mentioned at the beginning, I, I was fortunate to spend my, some of my graduate work in Andy Fry's lab at the University of Memphis and we, we did a lot in this area and so we, in fact, this is how I learned how to do assays and run western blots and measure signaling proteins and things like this. So this stuff was in the air and dear to my heart, we also did a bunch of really wild studies and he had done some before I got there. So I'm gonna combine kind of Andy Fry's entire career and and just highlight some of the big pictures of what he found there. He, he was very interested in exercise, particularly strength training and trying to figure out this entire question, right?

1 (1h 33m 36s):
Which is like, why is this actually happening when I work out too much, when I lift too much that all of a sudden I can't sleep what's happening? Like why is my energy down? Why is my mood my motivation reduced if I squat too much? And so he did a whole series of studies across his career and again I'll just sort of highlight some of the, the, some of the themes that ran through them. So the first one that jumps out to mind is really in his career he did this really awesome protocol where he had people squat 100% of their back squat max every day for two weeks. So you come into the gym and I think this first one was on a machine and you did a one rep max and then you came back in every single day for two weeks. So these are what we would generally call kind of like that short to moderate range overreaching.

1 (1h 34m 21s):
And by definition some of them end up actually being true over training because it would take the individuals sometimes two to up to eight weeks to return back to their one rep max at the end of these protocols. So some of them were non-functional overreaching or some combination of that. Well along with that he took a lot of blood samples as well as muscle biopsies to try to look at what's happening, endocrinological, neurologically muscle physiology wise to to pay attention what's happened. So a couple of things that jump out there, one of his initial studies, actually I think the very first one he did when they ran that first squat everyday protocol, what they found is kind of coalmine levels changed quite significantly and depending on kind of what you wanted to pay attention to there, whether it was epinephrine or nor epinephrine or even some other markers, they basically increased by somewhere between two to three fold.

1 (1h 35m 17s):
And so a little bit of understanding of sleep physiology, if adrenaline is extremely high epinephrine, you're gonna have a hard time sleeping. So that alone was, was first indication. This is like, wait a minute, something's actually happening here. That's just beyond muscle soreness. There's some sort of systemic fatigue happening and as you rightfully pointed out, is not the adrenal glands becoming fatigued. That's sort of a bit of tongue in cheek at pedantics. It is cortisol dysregulation and general stress syndrome, but it's really can be noted in in blood in terms of epinephrine and no epinephrine. Another study he had done of a similar realm was over the course of seven and a half days that people came in and did 15 training sessions.

1 (1h 35m 58s):
So it was really cool, these are these really short bouts of just ridiculous training and they said, okay, like something's happening with with epinephrine and norepinephrine, something hap, something's happening with testosterone, what's it look like inside the cell? So now muscle biopsies came on board and they started looking at things like map kinases, which are these signaling proteins that are tend to be associated with an anabolic response. They upregulate muscle protein synthesis and they do many other things but that's like a, a big factor of them. They looked at various androgens and glucocorticoid receptors and they wanted to say like, well maybe receptor density or, and or sensitivity is changing. And in fact, surprise surprise, that's exactly what they found.

1 (1h 36m 38s):
So they found both androgen and glucocorticoid receptor concentrations were reduced. And so you can start to see a picture forming, which is like, hmm, very similar to the insulin type two diabetes story where you've, you've really put yourself in a very high stress situation. So presumably epinephrine et cetera. Testosterone releases are extremely high in response to that to try to reach back to some level of homeostasis. You start downregulating the receptors for them. And so it's like the signal can only get so high if you're gonna keep that gas on, we're gonna pull back the throttle and the receptors so that the total signal stays the same. If that makes a little bit of sense, well that becomes obviously problematic.

1 (1h 37m 22s):
So then like a final follow up study here that that is important to note is they did another protocol which was really, really cool and they said the first ones weren't enough. So how about this, we're gonna come in every day for two weeks and we're going to do 10 sets of a one rep max every day. So they were coming in and they would do ten one rep maxes every day for two weeks. And what what's really cool about that study, if they didn't complete any of the repetitions, they had to repeat it until they had 10 successful one rep maxes on that given day. Absolutely brutal, brutal protocol. I wasn't there at the time, they had finished that right before I got on campus, but I was actually able to be around when they were doing some of the final analysis there of the tissue.

1 (1h 38m 5s):
What they wanna look at in this particular study was beta adrenergic receptors, which are those receptors where that are gonna be epinephrine and such are gonna be binding for. So again, similar story here perhaps are we losing overall sensitivity because of this extreme sympathetic stimulation? Now actually thinking back, what would've been pretty cool is if they had another group that did it and then did some downregulation breathing post to see if that can ameliorate some of the problems. But yeah, of course this was 20 plus years ago or something like that. So couple of things that happened is the one rep Max's dropped by I think around like eight kilos by the end of the two weeks, if I remember right, like the group average was something in the neighborhood of 151 kilos.

1 (1h 38m 46s):
So these were pretty well trained individuals and it went from rather, I think actually it was about 160 kilos and they dropped to like 152 kilos. Something close to that. What was more significant though was their power dropped by 35%, which is really, really interesting because if, if you pay attention to declines in physical performance over time, and I mean that like through aging, what you'll see is people can hold on to muscle mass pretty well. It will go down by about, you know, 1% or so after the age of 40. However strength will go down at like two to 4% and then power by eight to 10%.

1 (1h 39m 26s):
And if you look at actually world records across strength sports by age you'll see that they will decline by age but not that much. However, if you look at speed sports by age they fall off the planet. So it's very challenging to preserve fast through time whether this is fatigue or because of age. And that's really important because that'll then tell you, hey a little bit of a canary in the coal mine is not necessarily your strength but your speed. And so a lot of different techniques that we use to measure performance, remember that's our triad, right?

1 (1h 40m 6s):
Symptomology physiology and performance. You're generally better looking at speed based performance tests rather than strength based performance tests to get an earlier indication of potential overreaching or over training. So anyways, back to the, the individual study there in that same group again we had the same problem where it took some of them two to eight weeks to come back. So what they had to do is, I can't remember the exact timeframe, I probably should have thought through this, but they, they had to come back something like every week or every couple of days even after the study finished, until they got back to their baseline one rep max and some of them it took them up to eight weeks before they finally got back. So they probably were in a classic over training state at that place, which is was done in as little as two weeks.

1 (1h 40m 50s):
And this is also another point that people always ask like how, like how long does it take? Is this something that has to happen over the course of months or or like if I were to go do two days or this intense training camp for two or three weeks, could I actually cause over training? And the answer is if it is actually truly enough volume and enough intensity, you probably can do some significant damage in as little I was two weeks probably doesn't happen that often. Most likely you you're probably going to be reaching a state of non-functional overreaching, but you may actually be able to put yourself in a position where it might take three or four weeks or more to get back to baseline after a truly intense, and again, think about this protocol, it's like totally unrealistic for the most part 10 sets of one of a one rep max squat every day for two straight weeks.

1 (1h 41m 39s):
Some folks, if you're extremely highly trained weightlifter, you might do something like that when you're very close to say world championships. But outside of that really specific scenario, it's a totally absurd training protocol. But that was the point, right? We were trying to ensure, ensure that over-training was met or close. It's similar to when we've done, we've actually done I think three studies in the center for support performance on dom's muscle soreness. And and in all those cases you do just like ridiculous leg extension protocols cuz you're just trying to ensure you cause super soreness. Cause if you don't then you have nothing to study. So absurd training pros protocols, but, but that's the point.

1 (1h 42m 20s):
So nonetheless, as a result, sure enough, the beta ARG receptors were down regulated by something like 37%. What's probably even more significant though was the sensitivity in those receptors was reduced by like two and a half fold. And so it's like, okay, wait a minute, we're becoming desensitized to this timeI and we're also actually now starting to reduce our total concentration similar, which is actually an interesting, it was a very sneaky, smart thing to do, is they looked at nocturnal urinary epinephrine and guess what? That was also up by like 50%

0 (1h 42m 52s):
And 15 5, 5 0, 5 0. Yeah.

1 (1h 42m 55s):
And so now you're seeing this tie in where it's like, hmm, I'm seeing a response at the tissue level. I'm seeing a response probably, although they didn't actually look at the pituitary, anything like that. I'm, I'm seeing adrenal and other endocrinological problems. And then I'm also seeing this increase in concentration of ben epinephrine when I'm supposed to be sleeping and surprise, surprise, I'm having a hard time sleeping symptomology.

0 (1h 43m 23s):
That's a very interesting finding about nocturnal epinephrine. Epinephrine of course is adrenaline. It's released from the adrenals, no surprise there, but also from the brain area called locus aurelius in the brain. And the brain tends to be called epinephrine in the body. Adrenaline, just to complicate everyone's understanding. But that nomenclature did not come from us, so don't blame us. The point is that rapid eye movement sleep, so called REM sleep, is more abundant than the second half of the night. We know that the dreams associated with rapid eye movement sleep are more emotionally laden and that those dreams and those emotional states are actually important for discarding the emotional load of previous days experiences.

0 (1h 44m 8s):
It's a sort of a natural trauma therapy, if you will because in the normal healthy state, those dreams are associated within the inability to release epinephrine at night. So for me, what you just described, first of all, it's the first time I've ever heard of it, but it ties together something really quite clear from the sleep neuroscience literature, which is that when people are stressed they tend to get less rapid eye movement sleep, that rapid eye movement sleep normally is associated with low levels of epinephrine. So whether or not it's causal or not is unclear. Yeah. But sort of doesn't matter for sake of this discussion.

0 (1h 44m 48s):
But what I'm wondering, and I suppose one good test for but may be observed is whether or not people who are over in over training too much, overreaching too much because of this elevated nocturnal epinephrine, diminished REM sleep, whether or not their emotional state is also disrupted. Because one thing we know for sure is if you want to disrupt somebody's emotional state, you deprive them of sleep and rabbi eye movement sleep in particular. The one caveat to that is for those of you out there that have heard that rapid eye movement, sleep deprivation, deliberate rapid eye movement, sleep deprivation is a treatment for depression. That is true, but it's coupled with a next night enhanced rapid eye movement sleep.

0 (1h 45m 30s):
So one of the major takeaways from all of this that I'm realizing is that no surprise, daytime activities impact nighttime endocrine function, impact quality of sleep impact daytime activities.

1 (1h 45m 43s):
Yeah, actually there's, there's so many fun things I want to do here. Now, this is actually why measuring eye movement is a very fantastic tool for understanding total stress load. And you can actually differentiate different types of stress. So caffeine use versus alcohol use versus sleep deprivation by actually measuring eye movements. That's actually what we do in our absolute rest sleep company is in addition to getting a, a full P s D sleep study done in your bedroom, you're gonna get an eye tracking assessment, which we're gonna be able to figure out why you're getting there. So nonetheless, yeah, if you actually look at the classic signs and symptoms of over-training or Overtraining syndrome, it's gonna be everything from performance detriments, like we talked about.

1 (1h 46m 27s):
Resting heart rate is going to increase. You're gonna see things like H R V drop by generally 20 or so percent. That would be a very large disruption on R v, decreased body weight, and then all the stuff Andrew you just talked about. So motivation, adherence, appetite, mood, all of this stuff are, are classically known associations with, with overtraining, and that's for the exact reasons you're talking about sleep disturbances and disruptions, wanting to train motivation. All of this stuff goes part and parcel with non-functional overreaching and or overtraining. You can actually tie us back in a little bit more to some other biomarkers. And this is, this is great because this is the stuff we look for.

1 (1h 47m 8s):
This is the, the physiology stuff we look for. You've probably talked about S H B G before, which is a sex hormone binding globulin. So it's this protein that that'll float in your body that's gonna bind up sex hormones, in particular testosterone. So what happens with over training is you can actually take this serially like week by week and you can actually see this number rise. And so if you see this, like say you're using a a, a service like inside Tracker and you're getting your, your blood measured every so often and you see this number start ticking up, this is actually associated with that because what's actually happening is it's binding up all your free testosterone. And that's just leading back to the circle we're talking about.

1 (1h 47m 48s):
And you can actually see the same thing happen with calorie restriction, just not enough calories. But in this particular case, because it actually happens in both scenarios, you know, it's not an issue simply of being under caloried. It's clearly an issue of the training load being too high. So just to give another little tool, there's, I can get the link for it, but there's a, a website that was created by, I forget which journal, oh, I'm slipping, but I'll get it to you. You can link it up where you can actually go in and plug in a number of values from blood chemistry. So if you got your blood work done and you can plug in your pre number and your post number. So say you got it done and then maybe 10 weeks later you got it done again and you're wondering, and you notice, hey, my free testosterone's down or my h g is up, is it actually a meaningful number?

1 (1h 48m 36s):
And you, it will actually tell you whether or not the change pre deposed is physiologically meaningful or not, or just within the error margin of the measure. And you can actually change, like, like right there on the website, you can change your confidence interval. So it's really, really cool if, if, you know, if you just have your own blood and you wanna know like, hey, I had a any level this year and now it's, you know, here over there, it's just a totally free resource created, gone through peer review, all that stuff. And I'll give you a link to that. So that's a pretty cool measure. In addition to that, like probably one of the more powerful and easy metrics biologically is to take your cortisol D H E A ratio. So this is known to be associated with a lot of things. You wanna be really careful, you don't want this number to be too high or too low.

1 (1h 49m 22s):
Something like 0.09. It is about,

0 (1h 49m 24s):
It's cortisol to D H E A,

1 (1h 49m 25s):
D H E A to cortisol ratio. Yeah.

0 (1h 49m 27s):
D H E A to cortisol. I'd love to tell you I said it backwards on purpose just to make sure everyone understood, but I got it backwards.

1 (1h 49m 35s):
Yeah, I mean this ratio has been associated with so many things you have to do. You do have to be careful with association, right? Not being causation, but everything from risk of infections to metabolic health and, and like other disease states as well as more of what we're talking about, which is, hey, am i, am I, am I getting sort of cortisol this regulation, which is what a lot of folks would call, you know, again, adrenal fatigue, no, that's not really what's happening. But if adrenaline and epinephrine are off and testosterone and cortisol's gonna be long the riot. And so you can also look at things like testosterone and cortisol ratios. So there's a lot of things you can glean here to give you some insights into where you're going. If that, if that ratio is too high, that's gonna be associated with metabolic syndrome and a bunch of other stuff.

1 (1h 50m 20s):
If it's too low, that's gonna be associated with a lot of cognitive problems like aggression and mood and, and a bunch of things like that. So again, you wanna keep it right around that 0.09 ratio and, and most of the time actually in some blood chemistry stuff, you'll get a, you'll get a report of that or you can calculate it pretty quickly.

0 (1h 50m 39s):
I'm sure we'll get into this in the episode that comes next on nutrition and supplementation. Totally. What about compounds that lower cortisol such as ashwaganda? Yeah, I can see now based on the logic, you're spelling out that during phases of a lot of intense overreaching or frequent overreaching, given that those compounds can indeed lower cortisol ru roda rosacea,

1 (1h 51m 11s):
Ola

0 (1h 51m 11s):
Ola, rosacea. Fun word to say two words. But the first one more fun to say, Rhodiola rosacea.

1 (1h 51m 18s):
Ola

0 (1h 51m 19s):
Roseola rosa. Yeah, folks and Ashwaganda, I've been trying rodeo recently and mainly as a buffer to output. It does seem to have some good data attached to it related to lowering one's perceived threshold of how hard they're working. So in other words, you can work harder and not feel as if you're working really hard, which allows you to do more work. Yeah, that's sort of the subjective description of how it works. But you told me that it can blunt cortisol and ashwaganda, we know blunt's cortisol, both of these things of course can do other things, but are these compounds that you sometimes will incorporate into a training regimen?

1 (1h 52m 3s):
I, I've been using OLA for probably six or more years. Like pretty consistently, not personally, but using it with the individual we work with, you do need to be a little bit careful. I wouldn't say that it blunts cortisol. It is probably more appropriately described as a cortisol modulator, which means sort of if it gets too high or too low, it'll, it'll help kind of keep it within normative range. There's also, there is important to note, there have been a handful of studies, two of, I know specifically showed that rhodiola use can enhance strength gains, however, it may reduce muscular endurance. So we need more human data on this stuff. And it may turn out that's not a concern.

1 (1h 52m 45s):
It may also turn out to be a concern. So nothing is, nothing is perfect and free. There's no supplement that is a panacea. And I have used, again, rodeo in a lot of situations because the other thing you kinda have to pay attention with the cortisol is, is you ha it's supposed to be modulated throughout the day. It's not supposed to be at this normal. Now, in fact, if you look at the normative values, it's typically described in micrograms per deciliter and depending on literally what company used to draw your blood, if you're getting it through the blood, depending on what, which method they use to analyze it, the normative values are like frankly embarrassingly all over the place.

1 (1h 53m 25s):
They're mostly gonna be like five to 25 as a normative value. But that's outrageous. We also know those numbers vary massively by age, by sex and throughout the day. And so if you only are taking a single point, let's assume you're doing a fasted blood draw, which is what most folks do, it's really only gonna tell you a lot about what's happening in that moment. We need to know, well like maybe let's say my cortisol was, if I'm a say 38 year old woman and my 7:00 AM cortisol was, you know, 15 milligrams per deciliter, that's pretty good. But if it's 15 milligrams per deciliter at 3:00 PM ooh boy I'm, I'm in probably having some issues.

1 (1h 54m 9s):
Right? So there's a change throughout the day and you need to be able to plot that curve so you can actually, well pretty standard practice that we do is we look at cortisol throughout the day. We're gonna take multiple markers cause I don't wanna just see your baseline cortisol. I wanna see this curve throughout the day. That's gonna tell me a ton about, again, as your sleep being caused by this regulation, is it your training? Is it something else? So I would like take a single baseline blood marker of cortisol with a lot of, of grain of salt. We, we typically measure it at least three times throughout the day. So something like six to 9:00 AM 12 to three, and then something like closer to the evening. Oftentimes we do much more, we'll do like seven points or something like that throughout the day depending on the situation.

1 (1h 54m 52s):
So you wanna be careful of that just since we're here. You can also get cortisol in through saliva. And now that's sort of pros and cons to that because the, the pro of doing it in your blood is it's, it it's much more stable. Saliva is extremely responsive to whatever happened these seconds before you took that test. The upside of it though is you can do a bunch of real world life experiments. So for example, we will do this sometimes if we wanna see how an individual is responding to a given stressor, let's take it, right? Let's take the, take it in a, you know, spin into a tube. We're gonna take it and then we're gonna go do this workout or this cold exposure or whatever we're gonna do, take it at the end.

1 (1h 55m 32s):
We know that it's responsive to what just happened. But that's the point. So you can actually, there's sort of pros and cons so you'll use the appropriate measure for the appropriate question you're trying to answer.

0 (1h 55m 42s):
Yeah. A couple of points and reflections about cortisol. My first laboratory duty as an undergraduate was in a, was actually in a bio-psychology lab at the time. They didn't have the field of neuroscience as it's now called. It was called bio-psychology or psychobiology. I didn't know that. No. There was used to be neurochemistry neurobiology. They had all collapsed into what we call now called neuroscience Right on. Which was only, that's right some years ago. But my job was to collect cortisol samples, which means I, I was collecting spit, which means I was collecting saliva and the, an advantage of saliva based cortisol, it's free cortisol, it's the active form totally as you mentioned, it's reflective of what happened in the seconds or minutes just prior that, a couple of things about the regular cortisol pattern across the day because I realized that while it would be wonderful for everybody to get their cortisol measured in detail multiple times in blood and and saliva and so on, some people just won't do that for whatever reason or can't do that.

0 (1h 56m 34s):
Yeah. And the basic contour of a healthy pattern of cortisol secretion is to have highest levels of cortisol in the morning is to actually part of the mechanism that's associated with waking you up viewing bright light ideally from sunlight, but other forms of bright light early in the day actually can lead to a 50%, five 0% increase in that cortisol spike, which is a good thing. People here elevated cortisol. Oh no, totally, totally. Those sets in motion a cascade of things related to enhanced mood and alertness, immune system function, et cetera. What I think it can be useful for people to understand is that many things will spike cortisol throughout the day, stress cold water exercise. But the idea is that it comes down to baseline or near baseline rather quickly.

0 (1h 57m 14s):
One of the worst situations as you pointed out, is when the highest level of cortisol is consistently shifted to the afternoon period. In fact, that's a pretty reliable signature of certain forms of depression. This is worked by my colleague David Spiegel at Stanford Psychiatry and the the great Bob Sapolsky, Robert Sapolsky of Y Zebras don't get ulcers. Yep. Behave et cetera and fame. Lots of, lots of popular books there. I think that if people are trying to regulate their cortisol and they're just under and they just understand that basic contour, that the baseline should be, you know, rise pretty quickly after one rises in the morning. So it's easy to remember rise rise, rise outta bed and rise cortisol with light, bright light with exercise, with caffeine, these things will all increase cortisol and then across the day it's normal for cortisol to spike but then to use some of the downregulation methods that you described in particularly the breathing methods.

0 (1h 58m 11s):
Yeah. And exercise itself as the case may be, but then to really pay attention to how much psychological and physical stress is occurring in the six hours or so or eight hours prior to sleep. Does that seem like a, a good sort of broad contour of how to have a healthy pattern of cortisol release? Cuz you actually want the cortisol to reduce inflammation and initiate or participate in the recovery process.

1 (1h 58m 31s):
You will not see any progress from exercise training without a large spike in cortisol. It is critically important when we think of phrases like cortisol, inflammation, stress, this is not bad, right? Physiology is not personified right there, there things don't like hate you in the body, right? It is all is not good and bad. They just are. The more you try to suppress cortisol, the more you suppress adaptation. What you want is exactly what you mentioned. Large spikes met with large quick recovery and you wanna do that throughout the day and get that horn medic stressor. This is, so going back to your ashwaganda and Rhodiola issue, it, I think it would be very shortsighted for people to do that as this is a prophylactic, okay?

1 (1h 59m 17s):
Because you, if you blunt cortisol, you're going to cause immunosuppressant.

0 (1h 59m 21s):
Yeah. Especially early in the day. Totally. Taking ashwaganda before going to train is, is counterproductive.

1 (1h 59m 26s):
Yeah. We, we do not just, this is not a baseline part of our foundational package, right? If you go look at the athlete foundations or the athlete resilience protocols that put together, you're not going to see these things in there for that specific reason. Any form of cortisol regulation needs to be done strategically. If you are excessively high and we're bringing you back down to normative values at the right time, then great. If you're normal though, then taking you down lower than that is actually problematic. The same thing is actually true since we're here for oxidative stress, for inflammation, antioxidant use, we mentioned I think earlier about taking vitamin C and vitamin E post exercise will actually blunt adaptations, or at least it has the potential to do so.

1 (2h 0m 8s):
Same thing, right? If you're modulating this response just because, and you have not done so because of actually biological testing that indicated you needed to do such, then you actually may be making things worse. And so we, we see this constantly with people who take a number of supplements and substances for sleep and then they wake up the next morning groggy and your, your cortisol suppressed. Okay great. So then they take something for stimulation and then the rest of the day they're trying to reduce. And then you need this nasty cycle instead of just getting out of the way and letting cortisol do what it's supposed to do and then making sure, again, you're teaching it. So this is actually a coachable response.

1 (2h 0m 48s):
You can coach your own body to go down in the later part of the day and go up in the earlier part of the day. You wanna make sure that you are driving that train with intent. And so again, to reiterate, if you don't need that, you shouldn't do it. Right? If you don't need to lower cortisol, you shouldn't walk around doing it, you're just going to suppress the state even far. And this is what's needed. This is needed for anabolic responses. You're not going to grow muscle. If cortisol is not spike, it's gonna compromise it rather. So you wanna be intentional with these practices, especially in the form of, of supplementation, be very, very intentional.

0 (2h 1m 27s):
I've heard it said that carbohydrates in particular starchy carbohydrates definitely can inhibit cortisol. Definitely. And this could be through the tryptophan amino acid related pathway that ratchets up to serotonin release. Probably some other things too. I mean the idea that carbohydrates just stimulate serotonin is, is a little bit overly sympathetic.

1 (2h 1m 53s):
No, there's cellular mechanisms A and PK going up and immediately turning on there. Yeah,

0 (2h 1m 57s):
Right. So, you know, I think we've all experienced this, you know, we're stressed, we're stressed, we, it doesn't necessarily even have to be highly processed, you know, fat asso, you know, fatty carbohydrates, you know, like potato chips and, and potato chips and dip or these kinds of things. It can also be bowl of rice, bowl of oatmeal, bowl pasta, which here I'm not trying to demonize carbohydrates. I I do ingest carbohydrates minimally or non-processed carbohydrates most of the time, but not all the time. And they have a, a fairly potent effect on, on lowering stress and perceived stress and even quality of sleep, which is not to say that somebody has to load up on them like crazy unless their glycogen is really depleted.

0 (2h 2m 40s):
Yeah. Talked a lot about this in the endurance episode. I know we'll touch on more in the nutrition supplementation episode, but in thinking about the relationship between carbohydrates and cortisol and what we've just been talking about in terms of cortisol as being vitally important for the adaptation trigger or triggering adaptation, it's probably a better way to put it, but that it can blunt cortisol take in post-training or maybe in the evening before sleep. What are some of the basic ways that one can think about and maybe use carbohydrates in specific ways in order to, let's say control cortisol rather than quash cortisol?

1 (2h 3m 21s):
You actually have alluded to it a number of times already. So we oftentimes will give people a lot of carbohydrates at night for some of these reasons. You're going to feel fantastic, a lot of people, it helps you sleep, both get to sleep and stay asleep. Sleep quality you talked about specifically remember, think about it this way, cortisol at its core is an energy signaling molecule. It says we are in the need for energy. Great epinephrines, the same way you, you'll start seeing, for example, cortisol will liberate free fatty acids, put 'em in the bloodstream, get you prepared to do something. The problem is if it's continually elevated throughout the day with no downregulation, we start running into issues.

1 (2h 4m 5s):
Right? And so again, this is the differentiation between, oh my cortisol is slightly elevated all day versus I had a really big, big spike after training. I had a really big spike after breath protocol, et cetera. And then it went back down. So that being said, if you then ingest carbohydrates, you are telling it is quick to see the, we have nutrients, we have energy again, specifically carbohydrates, therefore cortisol can sort of go back down. We don't need to be liberating free fatty acids and preparing the need for fuel so you can help yourself go to sleep for many, as you pointed out, many mechanisms actually of why carbohydrates will, will help you sleep at night for some, not all people, but some that would be one of the relationships it has with cortisol.

0 (2h 4m 45s):
Great. I look forward to hearing more about how the various macronutrients and micronutrients and so-called adaptogens, this very mysterious group of Yeah, yeah. Compounds. You know the word adaptogen gets thrown around so much nowadays. Sure. But as long as we're talking about adaptation, I think that'll be fair play for the discussion in the next episode about nutrition and supplementation. In my laboratory when we study stress, we use a number of different markers, subjective reports of how stressed people feel, heart rate, morning heart rate, heart rate variability, cortisol free cortisol, and on and on. What are some of the other markers of stress as it relates to exercise adaptations and recovery?

0 (2h 5m 29s):
Because once again, I think we're seeing a lot of parallels between the study of psychological stress. Yeah. And the study of physical stress as it relates to exercise adaptation.

1 (2h 5m 40s):
Remember, in terms of physiology, stress is stress. This is why we have this cool term of allostatic load or allostasis such that it really doesn't matter which system you test for, it will reflect overall stress. You ne you mentioned several of them, we've got done talking about some biomarkers. H R V and heart rate are another great example because what you're trying to do is this, when we were talking about the muscle soreness thing, what we were really getting at was a marker of how do I fix the overuse in that particular muscle. Now we've really transitioned into global markers of overuse and why these are problematic or important to pay attention to rather is, again, these are the indicators that you didn't just work a muscle out too hard, but you have actually done something where you've compromised all of your physiology to a level where you've influenced a circulating catecholamine or something that's going to influence multiple markers now like your sleep and your mood and your behavior.

1 (2h 6m 37s):
So that's why these things are problematic. That said, you could look at resting heart rate, not a bad thing to do. However, that does have multiple downsides. One thing we do know is your resting heart rate will elevate with excessive stress load. This actually doesn't matter if it is physical stress or psychological stress or a combination. So you will see that number drift up over time. Here's the downside though, it's not tremendously sensitive to smaller stressors. In other words, if you were to do something like alcohol is a very good example, you will see your resting heart rate elevate with alcohol use, excessive tobacco use and psychological stress. However, if you do something smaller like a hard training sessions, resting heart rate's not sensitive enough to to pick that up, it will actually probably stay the same.

1 (2h 7m 22s):
So for those reasons, we don't actually use resting heart rate that much. We will take it, but it's not our primary indicator. That being said, H R V is a better use. So just really quickly, for those that are not familiar, your heart rate, let's say for example you, your resting heart rate is 60 beats per minute. That means every second it's beating. It doesn't actually happen on a consistent rhythm such that it would beat on second one, beat on second two, beat on second three, et cetera. The rate is more variable. So it might go beat, beat, beat, beat, beat, beat. There's a variation in the heart rate. And at the end of that 60 seconds in this example, you would've still completed 60 beats. They just aren't on the exact same pattern.

1 (2h 8m 4s):
Well, one thing that's actually quite interesting is the amount of variation in your heart rate is actually associated with your overall sympathetic or parasympathetic state such that a large variation. So an arrhythmic pattern is generally more representative of being more rested and recovered and being more parasympathetic. And you'll notice during times of extremely high stress, you will be very rhythmic, beat, beat, beat, beat, beat. And so this is a little bit of a, of a confusing idea, but a high H R V is there indicated of a lot of variation, meaning you're pretty recovered a low H R V meaning there's not a lot of variation means you're probably pretty stressed and wired.

1 (2h 8m 48s):
So it's, it's related to heart rate, but in my opinion it is a significantly better marker of that. Now, one thing you wanna pay attention to if you do this a couple of things, there are some accuracy issues with many of the devices. Basically everybody at this point probably has some device that's telling them they're hiv. What you do not want to do is simply compare your number to somebody else. For a lot of reasons. Not all of these technologies are actually even measuring the same thing. Again, some of them are actually combining with other metrics and calling it your overall readiness or your recovery. And so now we've, what we've actually done is made a couple of assumptions and then stacked them on a whole host of other assumptions and then giving you a number and you don't know what that sort of black box score actually even represents.

1 (2h 9m 34s):
So I would caution one against taking too much information from that. If you are actually measuring H R V, even within that, there's a lot of ways to calculate it that are not important here. So don't necessarily worry about the score and then compare it to yourself, but not to others. What you will see is if you use similar devices and techniques is hard to find data here, but in general, people that are overweight might have a little bit of a, of a lower score as in a worse score. We need more information on that to be clear. So in large part, the best way to use something like H R V is to measure it under the exact same circumstances every day.

1 (2h 10m 15s):
So whether you're going to use just a device on your watch or your phone or your bed or anything else, or you're gonna buy a special r v on, it's fine. Just take that measure at the same time. Mostly this means first thing in the morning. So you wake up, you go to the bathroom, you come back down, take your measure or something like that. You don't wait. Sometimes you took it before food, then after look at your phone, like all these other things that can influence stress. So, so take it usually takes somewhere between seconds and minutes to record. So you wanna pay attention to that. Now, one of the things you'll notice is there is a natural change in your H R V that just happens. And so what you kind of really wanna pay attention to is I guess answering the question of, well how much of a change in H R V has to happen for before I should care?

1 (2h 10m 58s):
And it's hard to answer, right? So let's just say your HR V was a hundred. I just made that number up. What if you wake up tomorrow and it's 99? What's that mean? Well, I don't know if you wake up tomorrow when it's 20, that's probably a bad thing. Well where's that line? It's hard. One thing I would recommend doing is taking your H R V for at least a month before you start using that value to make any changes.

0 (2h 11m 21s):
And you recommend taking it first thing in the morning. Yep. Always at roughly the same time.

1 (2h 11m 26s):
Basically under the same circumstances. It doesn't have to be technically in the morning, but because your day will change on most days of what you get into, that's the most stable thing in your life. So I would take it then and I would collect it for at least a day, at least a month rather, maybe even six weeks. And then give yourself basically a running average. So what we, what we quite honestly do is we will actually track it for forever. And then what we always look at is what does it look like today relative to the last week on average? And then what does that look like to our historical average? And we always compare those things. And you also wanna make sure you compare like to like, so in other words, I generally will not going to worry about today's HR score relative to tomorrow's.

1 (2h 12m 10s):
What I wanna look at is today's relative to this exact same day last week, not for athletes, but for non-athletes, this is very important. So imagine, don't worry about the difference between HR V score on Monday compared to Tuesday, pay attention to Monday compared to last Monday and the Monday before that. That's because you typically have the same sort of weekly schedule. And what you don't wanna do is, is say, look at Monday's HR V score, which is a reflection of what happened Sunday, and compare that to Tuesdays, which is actually a reflection of what happened Monday. You probably didn't do the same stressors on Sunday as Mondays. So you're not actually comparing the same thing. But if you have a general weekly schedule, you're likely to compare this Mondays relative to last Mondays because they're both comparing what happened on the previous days, sir.

1 (2h 12m 55s):
So did that sort of distinction make sense?

0 (2h 12m 58s):
Absolutely.

1 (2h 12m 58s):
I do the same thing with body weight, by the way. If you're trying to track body mass gain or fat loss or something, compare like the, like you can look at the daily changes, but you need to pay attention to what that normal distribution is. So if you kind of do that, you know, Monday to Monday thing, that'll give you a rough area of saying, okay, my normal weekly variation is say five. So my average is 100, but I will fluctuate between 95 to 1 0 5. That's my standard deviation is sort of a science dorks would call that. If you start very changing more than 5% outside of your normal standard deviation, then I'm gonna start paying attention a little bit. And I'm gonna actually run a little bit of an algorithm on this one.

1 (2h 13m 39s):
And so here is my thinking process when I get hr really any metric. But H R V is, is the example we're using. First step, did I collect good data and what that, I mean, again, did I measure it the same way I'm measured every single day? Or did I get up and look at my phone first and I realized, oh crap, I forgot to take my HR-V and then I went back and got it there. So say I had a 15% derivation from my normal number and then I realized, oh yeah, that's right. I was up super late last night doing whatever. Okay, great, I'm gonna consider that bad data you didn't good. If it's bad day, then I'm not doing anything. Ignore bad data, you throw it out, you don't use it. If you decide for the most part, let's assume it was good data. Okay, great. Then I'm going on my next question, which is, is it acute?

1 (2h 14m 22s):
In other words, is it just today, right? Or is it chronic as words? This is a, is this pattern been happening for more than five days or at least three at the last four or something like that? Three minimum is what I like. Honestly, I generally look at five or more days. That's a very big distinction. If it is something that just happened today, and the next question I'm gonna ask myself is, and I am that adaptation phase, am I trying to be in a phase where I'm trying to cause insult to the body that it needs to respond with? If that is the case, I'm just gonna ignore it, right? In fact, it's almost sometimes a good sign, Hey, we are stressing the body and it is stressed. What we're doing is working amazing. In fact, if you don't see that, it's sort of like, hmm, maybe we're not doing enough to push the phase.

1 (2h 15m 6s):
All right, so great. If the answer is no, we're in a peaking phase, then we're actually gonna use what I call acute state shifters. So this is a whole host of little tricks that I have that can change H R V or any recovery metric within seconds. Again, these are not chronic fixes, this is just I'm having a bad day today, I feel like crap, can I make myself feel better right now? And so I kind of call these parlor tricks a lot of the times and there's a thousand of them. We are certainly not gonna go over them, but I'll, I'll give you some examples you can pull out. First of all, physical movement, we'll do it. You, you'd be stunned how just doing some yoga, moving around, doing some jumping jacks, starting your workout.

1 (2h 15m 51s):
I mean you've probably experienced, this is sort of cliche in our world this point, but if you ever do any serious lifting over a serious amount of time, there will be days in which you walk into the gym and you feel awful. And somehow that day you said a lifetime pr

0 (2h 16m 5s):
Yeah, that's a strange, strange phenomenon. Yeah. I I I've experienced that more than a few times, right? It's rare. The inverse is rare. However, you feel great, you have a horrible workout. It happens. Yeah. And it can happen for any number of different reasons. But yeah, I think the, the former when, when isn't feeling very good and then somehow it's a terrific workout, does set a kind of a seed of doubt as to how good our subjective assessments really are. Which I guess is why we were talking about objective assessments. Yep. Like H r

1 (2h 16m 43s):
V, and remember, if it's a single day here, you can even do hard training. People sort of have this idea like, well, if you get up and your recovery score's down, do a lighter day. That's probably, I'm probably never making that choice to be honest. Not in this situation. Remember, this is one bad day and we are in a phase of even trying to improve performance right now. Like we're probably still training hard. You'll again often see, I felt terrible when I trained super hard and it totally changed my day around. This all can happen. So exercise is my first love here. Absolutely. Breathing any sort of upregulation breathing. So we talked a lot about downregulation breathing, just do the opposite, right?

1 (2h 17m 23s):
And so this is when hyperventilation strategies can work instead of accentuating the exhale, you accentuate the inhale or you restrict the exhales. This is working in the exact opposite situation. You can also play little, this is where things like music, motivational quotes, if you're the type that follows people on Instagram that motivates you or can work with these things, coaching tactics. These can be things like finding out or talking about that person's why you, you sort of shared something that a mantra you use when you're training hard to keep you go better. I'm not gonna ask you to share that now, but some people have this sometimes, right? Or you may have this conversation with your athlete that we, we call this finding out your why, right?

1 (2h 18m 6s):
So finding out like, why are you really here? What are we doing here? And a lot of times you'll hear things like, it's because I grew up poor and I don't ever wanna be poor again. Okay, great. This is for my children. Or like any number of things, and you can pull that out on these days. You need to be really careful. This is why I call these parlor tricks because when you play that card too often it starts to lose effect, right? And you can only dig to a hole so often before. It's sort of like a, the same thing as with music, right? If you, every time you go to the weight room, it's blasting death metal at level 10. Well eventually it's not, and it's no longer motivating, right? It's no longer helpful. So you wanna deploy these things strategically.

0 (2h 18m 46s):
Yeah. The, the phrase that comes to mind is signal to noise. You know, the nervous system, especially the dopamine system and the adrenaline system, which are a part of this larger system called the calomine system. So that's dopamine, epinephrine or epinephrine, the, the get up and go focus on external goals, movement associated and on and on, that that system responds best to high signal Absolutely. Relative to noise. So if you're, as you pointed out, lithium music every time drinking a ton of caffeine, energy, drinks, pre-workout neutropics, and then, you know, stacking all those things sometimes refer this as dopamine stacking, informally referred to as dopamine stacking. You're doing all those things and then you're, first of all, then you're wondering why later that afternoon or the next day day you're feeling like you're, you're under a cloud.

0 (2h 19m 30s):
Well obvious, your your ketamine system crashed. Yep. But it's also that you don't necessarily become dependent on it, it's just that you start to wonder whether or not you have the internal mechanisms and motivation to train without those things. And so one tends to use them more and more, and then they have a diminishing effect over time. The rule that I've been sort of applying has been, I never do two workouts in a row where I'm stacking in stimulants loud music and any kind of sort of high potency inspiration. Yeah. However, every set in the gym or when I run, I really try and be diligent about form and attention to what I'm doing. The one exception would be the long duration endurance work.

0 (2h 20m 12s):
Part of the reason I do that work is to let my mind go into states of drifting. I'm not trying to think in complete sentences or even close to it, just let my my brain kind of idle at a, at a low hum. And for that reason, generally listen to something that's more of a story or don't listen to anything at all. And just let my thoughts kind of spool through. Anyway, I don't wanna take us too far off track, but I think this idea of signal to noise will resonate with the engineers out there, but since most people are likely not engineers, it is the way that the nervous system works, evidenced by the fact that whatever area of your body right now is in contact with a chair or any other surface that it's been in contact with for more than a few seconds, you forget that it's in contact with it.

0 (2h 20m 54s):
Sure. Because there's low signal to noise at that point.

1 (2h 20m 57s):
A similar note, you actually mentioned stimulants basically there, whether you're talking caffeine or any other stimulant, any other cortisol modulators or adaptogens, any of these things fall in the category. If you're not using them consistently and you're having a rough day and all of a sudden you throw down 200 milligrams of caffeine, it's gonna change real fast. The

0 (2h 21m 15s):
Equation. That's a strong performance enhancing effect.

1 (2h 21m 18s):
Yeah, absolutely. And for these reasons, right? So we mentioned a couple of them, breath work, food, more calories, just eating some food. Sometimes we'll give people like com, what we call comfort foods. So this is just like, hey, you're, you know, you're from Georgia and we know you love grits, so we're having grits for breakfast. Oh my great. Like, just something to change your mood, acute state shifters to alter it. The other couple of tricks here are light. So if we know that maybe you see multiple people are struggling that day, maybe we'll put on the lights extra bright, we'll bring in some extra things and just get it more light in there. And not, doesn't even count actually going outside and seeing the sun, but perhaps we'll do that.

1 (2h 21m 58s):
And then other little tricks that I've learned over the years is, one particular thing I love is literally drawing a line, a physical line in the ground. And you look at that line and you say like, I'm going to train today and I'm going to accomplish this effort. I'm not going to walk past this line and into that training space until I'm ready to give that effort. And that may take a minute or 10 or whatever. But it, it's, the physical barrier is very important to saying like, I'm not just gonna get through it. I'm going to actually perform the way I wanna perform, or I'm not gonna do it and I'm not gonna cross this line until I'm ready to make that happen.

0 (2h 22m 37s):
I, I really like that tool. It also brings to mind the importance of at least thinking about how your relationship with your phone during training can perhaps help but also impede workout motivation and performance. In an earlier episode, you mentioned that if people are using their phone to play music during their workout, that they establish the complete playlist prior to initiating the workout and then not deviate from that playlist as opposed to changing it in the middle because there's just too much of a, of an impulse to also check social media, check email, check text messages. I mean, the way I think about the phone actually is it's a bunch of little brain areas.

0 (2h 23m 18s):
It's got a memory system for you. It's got look up tables for look up tables, it's got websites to look things up on the internet, it's got photos. I mean, it is so rich with sensory data. Yeah. And it's so closely linked to our own brain architecture. The algorithms are designed for those to be that way that I always think about it as bringing in a second person with me, but that person is my twin that has severe attention issues. And for those that already have attention issues, just think about this as a, a twin that would then compound you by tapping on your shoulder, talking to you all the time, interrupting you somebody that you like a lot, but that frankly is, is a little bit irritating in that they're, they're interrupting your ability to really show up and also your ability to show up for them.

0 (2h 24m 3s):
So I started to think about the phone as an entire individual and that it represents me and, and certainly not the better version of me.

1 (2h 24m 13s):
Great. Exactly. You actually mentioned something else that we'll use occasionally in which what we call brain games or puzzles, whether this is a crossword puzzle or something where you actually lose your thought of self for a second and your brain gets engaged in a task that you weren't regretting or even thinking about. These can be stupid little games. It could be little challenges, especially if you're in like a group or a team setting, right? Like, we're gonna play one round of dodge ball or we're gonna play one round of, of thumb wars.

0 (2h 24m 41s):
So you do encourage this. Yeah. I see. So

1 (2h 24m 43s):
You would play like a thing instead of warming ups, like, all right, get in and everyone get going. We're gonna, you know, get your foam rolling, your diamond whatever thing this just like, all right, everyone line up and we're gonna play thumb roars to see who wins, right? Just like whatever. Right? And all of a sudden you've snapped into a new mental shift or literally playing brain games, playing Tetris on your phone. Like any of these things can work in this acute setting.

0 (2h 25m 5s):
Can I ask you a question that's not directly related to recovery per se, but I think it's worth mentioning or asking about rather, which is the use of mirrors or no mirrors while training, you know, the experience of seeing oneself and observing one's form in the mirror, I suppose has some utility. You can get some, some sense of progress that you might trigger here. I'm almost specifically referring to resistance training. I suppose it could be cardio if you're running on a treadmill or pushing a sled or something. But you can see form, you can get a sense of what your face looks like when you grimace. But in all seriousness, you are without question a person, not you Andy, but one is in a less interceptive mode when looking at themselves in the mirror.

0 (2h 25m 56s):
So extra interception per perception of things beyond the confines of our skin, even if it's a picture of us interception perception of everything from the skin inward. And so if we're looking at ourselves, we're diverting some allocation of our attention. Let's say there's a hundred, these are arbitrary units and you can put 50% of your attention on the feeling in your body or the muscles, your training, and 50% on how it appears in the mirror. Or it could be a hundred percent on the mirror or a hundred percent internally, which you'd best accomplish probably by closing your eyes. So obviously there are constraints here. Certain movements you wouldn't want to close your eyes, et cetera. In general, what are your thoughts on mirrors or no mirrors for resistance training specifically?

1 (2h 26m 37s):
It depends on the metric that you find most important. And what I mean by this is if you're training for say, muscle hypertrophy, there's emerging evidence that suggests actually looking at yourself in the mirror and even flexing in between sets can actually be advantageous or can augment muscle gains.

0 (2h 26m 55s):
Oh my, there's support for all the, the, the mirror flexors. Absolutely not, not making fun of you. I just, it is is sort of interesting to be on the observing side of of that. But hey listen, results are what people are after.

1 (2h 27m 9s):
Yeah. Yeah. Having said that, if you're trying to enhance movement learning, then it may be detrimental. So if you're doing an exercise that is explosive and fast, it's probably not the best thing to be looking into a mirror. If you were to walk into any Olympic weightlifting arena and you had any thoughts of using AM mirror, you would probably run outta the gym very, very quickly. You can't see yourself in time to make a, an adjustment with the movement that's happening that fast. And also we'll do exactly what you mentioned, which is it will remove your ability to understand and feel the movement. And so this is a big component to using technology for exercise at all, is you have to make sure that the end point is you understanding you and your physiology more, not less when you outsource learning to technology.

1 (2h 27m 58s):
And in this case, even if the technology is the mirror, you remove your ability to gain and truly understand that learning process. So you need to be very, very careful whether you are using a mirror or whether you are using any number of apps where you can record, say a movement, and then watch it afterwards. And it will give you a breakdown if your hand was in the right spot or foot was in the right spot. These are all great, but you need to then take the next step, which is to say, I need to be able to feel that position. All right, so in the case of performance, if you can imagine trying to learn a new technique, say running technique, and you have to be able to watch yourself in the mirror to understand your stride in the right position.

1 (2h 28m 38s):
If you don't take the next step of saying, okay, now I don't have to look in the mirror and I can feel when I'm getting out of rhythm or whatever the case is, then you'll never be able to actually then use that in your race. And so it's very, very important that people, again, pay attention to what is the dependent variable that you're actually interested in doing. And if you're trying to get better at something, the tech is okay as a starting place, it just cannot be the finishing place.

0 (2h 29m 0s):
Thank you for those reflections. I'm curious as to what happens or what one should do if their H R V is reduced for maybe three or four or more days in a row.

1 (2h 29m 11s):
Absolutely. The next question that I'm gonna ask is, Ann, am I in that adaptation phase? If so, I'm gonna still ignore it just like I did if it was a single bad day, but I'm gonna start watching it very carefully. I may actually now introduce some other tests. So I may use a performance test, we may look at something else, maybe ask questions, maybe have some communication either with myself or somebody else. So I'm gonna start paying more attention, but I'm still really not gonna take much action until that crosses more than seven days of consistent problems. If it does do that or, or in a peaking phase, then I'm gonna go to another set of solutions that are truly going to pull me out of the hole rather than just be those acute state shifters.

1 (2h 29m 56s):
These are more what I call chronic state shifters. Now, some of these are actually very similar to the ones we've used before, for example, thermal stress. So I can promise you if your recovery score is in the tanks and you walk outside and you jump in your 35 degree water and you get back out, what's going to happen is your H R V score immediately afterwards. I'm, I'm talking within seconds is going to be significantly compromised, right? In other words, think about that. Remember, a low H R V means high sympathetic. I promise you cold water will put you in a high sympathetic drive. However, and we've tested this pretty extensively looking at H R V 0 15, 30, 60, 90, all the way up to 180 minutes post.

1 (2h 30m 44s):
And on average you'll see your HR V score continue to rise after that. And so while you'll have this immediate sympathetic response, you'll immediately then respond, you know, about 30 minutes on most people, depends on the person though. And that score will be improved for several hours afterwards. So heat can kind of have a similar effect. That actually again, is a, it is sort of an acute fix, but over time, a as we've described earlier, that can also have a little bit of a chronic effect. We can also then get into areas like sleep. And so, so now we're gonna start playing and exploring why are, are you sleeping poor as well?

1 (2h 31m 25s):
Or was your sleep score fine but your H R V was low? That's a little bit of a different answer. If your sleep is getting compromised, then we're gonna start going into and making sure we're improving our sleep in terms of like brain stuff, instead of maybe playing a game or having music or some of those other tricks, those aren't gonna really have a chronic effect. But you can do things like work on social connection that's actually been shown to improve recovery over time. You can do things like journaling or meditation and those have an acute effect as well as a chronic effect. So again, if you go journal right now, you probably feel better. But also we know that over time that will gradually improve things.

1 (2h 32m 8s):
So adaptogens and things like that also can have a chronic effect. So can things like electrolytes or food or hydration, if those things were, were off. So we're gonna go to a whole number of areas, but those are the primary ones. Outstanding of all that. Of course it may be simply a time to go back and reassess our training program. That's truly the case. So that's where we're at. If so, we're probably going to either completely remove training or drop it to like 50% or so until we start rebounding back to baseline. And that's generally the numbers we use

0 (2h 32m 45s):
For many people who are not training for a competitive sport and maybe aren't pushing themselves really hard. You know, maybe they're, they consider themselves somebody who exercises in order to maintain health and aesthetics and longevity, et cetera. And they never really finish any workout completely exhausted. They're sleeping okay, their appetite's, okay, can we assume that they are recovering well or maybe they're not creating enough of a adaptation response, like there's no progressive overreaching and so there's really no stimulus for recovery.

0 (2h 33m 28s):
What I'm saying here is on the, on the face of it, I think is obvious, right? If you don't train hard, there's nothing to recover from. What I'm really saying is, is the ability to recover itself something that we need to train? In other words, can we get better at recovering? And the analogy here would be something like focus in order to perform work of any kind, but certainly mental work and physical work, we need to be able to focus. The ability to focus is the reflection of a bunch of neural circuits and chemicals and hormones, et cetera. But we know roughly what those are. And we know that if you are poor at focusing for every small bit of time, that you can focus a little bit longer.

0 (2h 34m 11s):
Even if it's a matter of seconds, those circuits themselves get better at focusing and so on and so forth. So in other words, is the recovery system, however, broad neurotransmitters, hormones, neural, muscular, immune based, et cetera, can that system or set of systems become better? Can we get better at recovering? Can we, meaning can it become faster and more effective? Can we think of the recovery system as kind of a blade that gets sharper by engaging recovery? Because if so, then there's strong reason for people who are not pushing really hard to push at least a little bit harder than is comfortable for them every once in a while to make sure that that system doesn't start to slide back.

1 (2h 34m 54s):
Remember, physiology is listening to everything you do and it is always responding. So the analogy that I will meet your analogy with that I use here is the bowling alley. So you've probably been bowling before and you've used the bumper lanes, right?

0 (2h 35m 9s):
The bumper lanes. I've gone bowling before and I've spent time in the gutter and I've spent time on the pins. Okay?

1 (2h 35m 15s):
So

0 (2h 35m 15s):
It's been a while. We used to have a bowling alley in the town where I went to and it was fun. We used to slide around on those shoes and like all the kids would hang out there and I feel like, do they still have bowling

1 (2h 35m 25s):
Alleys? I don't even know.

0 (2h 35m 26s):
It feels like something that may have gone the, the way of the, the mid two thousands. I

1 (2h 35m 30s):
Don't care if no one bells anymore, you're not gonna ruin my good analogy.

0 (2h 35m 34s):
Okay, well what my intent wasn't to ruin your analogy. Okay, tell us about bowling. All the bowlers are gonna come after me with with bowling balls or

1 (2h 35m 41s):
Something, right? You're gonna get blasted with all the stats on elevations and don't

0 (2h 35m 45s):
Hurt me. Sorry though. Cool.

1 (2h 35m 47s):
So if one were to go bowling and they didn't wanna put their ball in the gutter, yep, you could put these little bumpers in those lanes. All right? And these little foam pads that go in the gutter that if your ball is going towards the gutter, it hits those and bounces off and goes back in the lane, right? Okay. So in this entire conversation, and this is actually true of a lot of the way people approach their fitness and health, people are very concerned oftentimes with optimizing meaning, I wanna make sure I don't go on the gutter, I don't want to hit the walls. So therefore I'm gonna try to improve the accuracy in which I throw the ball. So I wanna make sure that I'm throwing it down the center of the lane more often and I want to get my dis, my standard deviation tighter and tighter so that I don't get anywhere close to hitting the wall.

1 (2h 36m 34s):
However, what they're not realizing is if you do that, the body will start shrinking the size of the lane. Cuz what it basically says is, huh, we haven't had a ball touch us in years. We don't need to be this wide. Let's get smaller and smaller and smaller. So it's not that you actually are having a reduced ability to recover, but you start becoming incredibly sensitive to that. So your two strategies for enhancing recovery are to practice getting closer of throwing that ball down the middle lane or to widen, to widen the alley. And that's exactly what you're referring to and you absolutely should do that.

1 (2h 37m 15s):
And so what happens is you don't have to be so precise with what you're doing because your ability to handle so many things is widen. So if you're off now by four or five inches to the right, no problem because you've just tripled the size of your alley. That's exactly what you wanna do. So paying attention to two things. Number one is getting better at accuracy, maybe staying really tight with your progressions, using nutrition and sleep to optimize your recovery and push your resilience is what we call this. In fact, there's actually a biological way to measure resilience. We, we do that in all of our folks. This is scientifically validated stuff. I didn't just make it up. You can actually measure resilience and there's more and more coming out on this, but that's exactly what that term means.

1 (2h 37m 57s):
So how well can you handle and bang things off the stressful? So when you see a reduction in say, 10% of your H R V today for you, that might make you feel terrible for me. I might not feel anything because I'm well adapted to large fluctuations and therefore I'm okay The lesson and less you do that, the more and more responsive you will be to those slight deviations. So that is exactly the target and that's kind of what I allude to when I say you gotta understand what are we optimizing for? We optimizing for making sure I don't feel any different today. Are we optimizing to make sure when I do feel different, I still am able to perform. So this is why you wanna do things like maybe use some caffeine today and feel great.

1 (2h 38m 41s):
But if I have to use it every day, all I'm doing is shrinking my sensitivity there. So now if I have to go a day without it, I can't train at all, right? Caffeine is the easy example cause people understand how that whole system works. But this is really true of everything else. So yeah, you need to practice this and the way to do that is to give yourself more stress to continue to bring in the stress from nutrition, from training, from breath work. You mentioned earlier about focus, the exact same thing, right? It's not just about getting better right now, it's about training a system. And you can clearly train that, right? We will often say breath work is a practice.

1 (2h 39m 21s):
That's exactly what we're talking about, right? So you're practicing getting better at these things. You're practicing returning your focus, you're practicing recovering, and quite literally physiologically you can upregulate, whether we're talking enzymes, whether we're talking about regulators. These will be upregulated. So then, then the next time that insult comes in, it's not as big as it's not as damaging. So yeah, absolutely you can, and you should strive for that

0 (2h 39m 46s):
Throughout all the episodes where we've been talking about exercise. At the core of that is this word adaptations. And I love that you mentioned that breath work can also create adaptations. The way I'm visualizing all of this now is that resistance training with weights, machines, body weight, otherwise cardiovascular training, running, jogging, sprinting, jumping and so on. Thermal training, exposure to heat, exposure to cold in a dedicated way and deliberate respiration, aka breathing or breath work as a practice.

0 (2h 40m 27s):
All of those can be viewed as ways to trigger adaptations. And in the context of recovery, the specific adaptations you're trying to engage are opposite to stress. In fact, with the exception of perhaps deliberate cold exposure, maybe deliberate heat exposure. Cuz if the sauna's really hot, you can get the endorphin release, which is kind of uncomfortable. But still in both those cases, the rebound from that, in other words, when you get out, you shower, you go to bed the next morning, you do have this kind of blissed out feeling. We know why that is. That is the rebound to that uncomfortable situation. So it seems it doesn't really matter whether or not you're using resistance, you're doing cardiovascular training, you're using thermal approaches, or you're using respiration based approaches.

0 (2h 41m 15s):
All of these are really ways of both triggering adaptations and if applied properly to actually help you recover from the stress and create the the literal result that you're, that you're trying to achieve. For some people that might have been obvious, but I think for many people, including myself, this set of conversations that we've been having over the series, these episodes, it's really the first time that I've ever thought about exercise in these ways. In any event, it's just a reflection, but it's one that at least for me, is tremendously useful because it has a lot of organizational logic to it, which at least appeals to, to my brain because the more that things have a logic, the more for me that they become simplified and the more that the vast array of tools becomes, becomes visible to me.

0 (2h 42m 4s):
As you said earlier, what is it, let me make sure I get this right. It's concepts are few methods are many pretty Close. Okay, how would you, how put, remind us how you state it.

1 (2h 42m 12s):
Methods are many concepts are few. Ah,

0 (2h 42m 14s):
Okay. Either way, the directionality probably,

1 (2h 42m 17s):
It doesn't

0 (2h 42m 17s):
Matter. No, let's keep it right. The the methods are many concepts are few. Galpin law I in science, you're not allowed to name things after yourself, but you can name things after other people. So it's a galpin law

1 (2h 42m 31s):
Because I'm definitely the one who created that idea, right? So absolutely that was extreme and tremendous sarcasm. Just so we're ultra

0 (2h 42m 39s):
Clear, right? Regardless, here we go. Galvin's Law, there

1 (2h 42m 42s):
You go. One thing that's in my head right now is we've thrown out a lot of options for folks and maybe what we can do is try to simplify a little bit. So what I can kind of walk you through is how we measure recovery, if you will, on how often and some tools. And what I would recommend people do is not use everything I said. You wanna pick one or two things per category that are most important to you, that are at your cost, that are at your availability, that are interesting and important, relevant to you, and do that. The reason I kind of wanted to cover a, a large number of things was to give 'em evoked options.

1 (2h 43m 22s):
But again, I wanna emphasize the point is to not measure all of them. In fact, you don't need to. We, I, I've ran this before with professional athletes where we've taken blood urine every single day. We've done performance measures, vertical jumps on a force plate, a whole bunch of things every day for years on end. And what I can tell you is there's tremendous redundancy in physiology, right? Everything is everything. So you don't need to do them and don't feel like you're missing out if you aren't doing them one or two metrics is probably fine. I generally recommend one subjective measure. This could be as simple as what's your mood, how do you feel today?

1 (2h 44m 2s):
Great. And one objective measure, H R v, resting heart rate, anything else, right? So if you even literally just did that, you'd probably have pretty good insight as to what you're doing. So maybe in fact, I'll, I'll, I'll go more detail here. Maybe I'll give you a couple of examples of things to measure every day. Some things that you should measure, maybe quarterly, monthly, and then maybe even semi-annually. And then you can maybe just pick a couple from each of these categories and have yourself a pretty good monitoring system for what to do. And I'll include some that are a little bit of technology based and then others that are totally cost free and require nothing. Okay. To start off, I would recommend taking something like H R V every day or, or most days if you don't have a device like that, you could also use honestly the CO2 tolerance test.

1 (2h 44m 51s):
And we've talked about that a number of times and we probably have plenty of research to go find that, but that doesn't require anything. It typically takes about a minute or so, and you can do that under the same circumstances in which HR V, in other words, do it the same time every day, have the same standardization stuff. And that is actually been in our coaching experience. While admittedly there is no peer reviewed research on this yet, just in our experience, this tends to track extremely closely with HR V and other metrics of recovery. In fact, we actually did do a, a pilot trial in my lab and it, it tracked decently well with both state and trade anxiety. So it's a nice metric, not perfect, but you, you could take that, so if you wanted, you could do both.

1 (2h 45m 35s):
But again, remember you're trying to capture systemic stress and so you're really just showing, you're measuring one thing two ways. So you don't necessarily have to have them both. I will do both, just because like I'm super interested in small differences, but globally they're going to tell you basically the same thing. So those are two things we'll use. Again, basically daily year round or, or close to it. If you wanna go past that a little bit, you can look at, you can use an actual a a a pretty old commonly used survey called a dda, D A L D A, I forget the exact acronym, but it is a fairly lengthy questionnaire and it accounts for things like how do you feel today, how did you sleep?

1 (2h 46m 19s):
Any stressors going on in your life, how you've been eating. And it's just, it's like fairly comprehensive, lengthy survey that came out. I mean, Jesus probably been around for 30 years or something is, is it's nothing new and been used extensively. I you would not wanna do that every day If you wanted to take some subjective measures every day, we typically stick with, like I said, mood, motivation, something like that. You would, you could perform this to all to test. So something more like monthly or at the end of each training phase, you know, every couple of months and probably worth looking at. It's not gonna tell you if you're in a bad spot today or tomorrow, but you would pick that up with the HIV or suit to tolerance test. It would though tell you information, especially if you're working with another individual about major life changes.

1 (2h 47m 3s):
And if anything it just facilitates that conversation, right? I noticed you reported X happening, let's, let's talk about that and can I help? Et cetera. So another kind of sneaky helpful one is, is to simply body fat. Like I said, non-functional overreaching and over-training are associated with the number of things like energy appetite, suppression, changes in and body weight or body composition. So you can measure that monthly or even really quarterly depending on what kind of athlete or individual you're working at or if you're trying to, especially if you're not trying to lose weight or if you're trying to be at maintenance. And that'll give you some insights as well. So moving past that, now actually we're gonna move into the realm of things that we call hidden stressors.

1 (2h 47m 46s):
So those are, those are all visible stressors. So hidden stressors, the most common ones we've sort of mentioned, and I would probably do this, you, well you're gonna have to do these ones through serum. So this is blood work, cortisol, like we talked about in testosterone. And then of course testosterone and cortisol ratio. And then the other ones I mentioned, you can do those quarterly. It's not bad. There are some blood markers that there's really no sense to do them that soon. And there are other markers, I mean in our system our individuals are getting pretty extensive blood work, saliva work, urine and, and stool. And there's, so there's plenty of those things you just do not need to measure, you know, every 10 weeks or so.

1 (2h 48m 26s):
In this case, you know, cortisol a as you know, sort of changes rapidly. Testosterone can change pretty quickly, but if you're really trying to notice a, a larger trend, you know, certainly a quarterly or so is is an appropriate timeframe. Doing it every four or five weeks is probably unnecessary. So you can save yourself some money and do that other stuff, you can look at actually more like semi-annually in plasma, like glutamine and glutamine glutamate ratio and you can maybe save the why you wanna look at those for another conversation. But those are important. We always look at something from the oxidative distress thing. So this could be something like TNF alpha or interleukin six, something like that. Again, we're looking at that in serum and we're looking at at that, you know, like semi-annually.

1 (2h 49m 10s):
And then another sneaky, actually one that I love to look at is the neutrophil lymphocyte ratio, which will give you some pretty good insight. And again, you could look at that like fairly quarterly if that number starts to get really high, certainly like more than nine to one, you got a pretty good insight that something gnarly is going on at the immune system. So we will actually take action much lower than that number, but that's like a nice cutoff you'll see is like, that's a very, very high number. So those are some things you can use. Most folks have the ability hopefully to get some basic blood work done, get a basic, what's called a CBC and cmp. If you have a great physician and you can get insurance to cover that and you just go on and ask for a CBC and cmp, they'll know what that means.

1 (2h 49m 50s):
You can Google that and they'll order it and you'll get all the information typically that I just described or close enough and you'll get some insights. And then again, you can just use that free service I mentioned earlier to check to see whether or not the changes are just a matter of testing quality or actually physiologically relevant.

0 (2h 50m 7s):
What you just described is an amazingly powerful array of tools. I'm hoping that you can also mention a few tools that are either lower cost, truly low cost or zero cost, that while they may not have the accuracy or give the complete picture that some of the biomarkers and other tools that you mentioned do that they can still provide reasonably reliable metrics that people can use in order to assess their level of recovery.

1 (2h 50m 38s):
Absolutely. The CO2 tolerance test would be the first one, and you can just take that metric anytime you'd like. The other ones we've talked about so far are things like your mood. We haven't mentioned libido, but that's another assessment that people also tend to have a pretty good grip on and they know what feels normal. So when things go outta whack, it tends to be a pretty good signal that people will recognize.

0 (2h 51m 1s):
Yeah, and one note about that, something that came up in an episode on, on hormones, both for male and female health that at some point will air, which is that, you know, there's no objective measure for people in terms of libido across the board, meaning people vary tremendously, age life circumstances and on and on. And so this is one of those subjective measures that I think people need to have some sense of what their baseline really is. And I'm guessing that the time to assess that might best be when initiating or midway through a relatively low intensity training phase, maybe during the time of year in which all the other factors that can influence libido are not at their maximum.

0 (2h 51m 56s):
So if you think about, you know, light and dopamine and the relationship between those and the testosterone estrogen systems, we know that libido, testosterone, estrogen and men and women tends to peak in the summer months. So if that's your baseline that you're comparing to, I don't know that that's as reliable as being in something like the the fall or the spring. Yeah. And so anyway, this again is very subjective, but we just encourage people to recognize that there's no standard numbers for this. No look up table. There's no equivalent of the libido bmi, right? The lmi, no disrespect to the, the acronym that probably is lmi. So I think that it is just something to keep in mind as people do comparisons or subjective comparisons is don't pick a comparison to an extreme, try and pick a comparison to a average as you know it to

1 (2h 52m 48s):
Be. That actually sort of reminded me. One issue that we have seen a lot lately is people, if they're having libido issues or just even slightly noticing a drop, they just assume that then therefore means their testosterone is crashing. And those things are certainly connected, but that is not necessarily the case. And where that becomes a problem is then people then go on things like T R T, et cetera with no true oversight and then all kinds of other problems. So make sure that if you're gonna take that step that you actually get testosterone measured and you're working with a qualified person to guide you through that process. Don't just assume because you're having low energy or your libido is a little bit down. It could be simply training related, it could be sleep related, it could be any number of things.

1 (2h 53m 31s):
So that's like a little bit of a word of caution there.

0 (2h 53m 33s):
Two quick points along the lines of what you just said. One interesting thing that I learned when researching our episode on testosterone and estrogen optimization, this was an episode that we'd done some time ago, but it's still available in our huberman lab.com, all formats, et cetera, is that many people actually increase their libido and even their levels of testosterone and estrogen as they progress from their twenties into their forties if they take excellent care of themselves, including the correct exercise adaptations, correct body fat to lean, lean muscle ratios. But of course it can go the other way too. A lot of people can be training to achieve such low body fat stores that libido can suffer.

0 (2h 54m 15s):
So it it, you know, the age depend, age related declines in libido are not necessarily written into the script of life. In fact, there are some data points from a really interesting paper I talk about in that episode of individuals. This was a study focused on males in their eighties and nineties who maintained total and free testosterone as high as individuals in their twenties. But then when you look at the lifestyle factors of those, yeah people in their eighties and nineties, they were doing a lot to create that, that scenario. The second point is one related to what you just said, which is very true, which is people generally tend to assume that a drop in libido is related to a drop in testosterone and then assume that they need to increase their testosterone.

0 (2h 54m 58s):
And in some cases that is true. Absolutely. But it's also often the case that people who take estrogen or aromatase blockers that is enzyme inhibitors that prevent the conversion of testosterone to estrogen experience severe deficits in libido because of estrogen being too low. Totally, totally. So estrogen blockers are as much an issue here as low testosterone. Then the final point is also one that many people now men and women are I think need to be aware of, which is that dihydro testosterone, D H t is among the more powerful androgens for power output, physical power output, but also for libido.

0 (2h 55m 38s):
And DHT is strongly inhibited by certain things like turmeric. Yeah. So a lot of people who are taking high doses of turmeric can experience drops in libido. So there and who are taking various compounds to prevent hair loss. Yep. Things like Finasteride. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So there's a whole catalog of things that can reduce libido that are not directly in the testosterone pathway, that can be DSG related, estrogen related. And this I think points to the importance of yes, take a subjective measure of your libido, pay attention, essentially be aware, don't, yeah. You know, don't obsess but be, but be aware and try and figure out what factors are involved for you, but don't immediately assume that it, what's needed is more testosterone.

0 (2h 56m 23s):
And oftentimes the opposite is the case.

1 (2h 56m 25s):
Yeah. You, yeah. Try to put on a lot of muscle with no estrogen, good

0 (2h 56m 29s):
Luck. Right. And and indeed a lot of athletes in particular, you know, competitive bodybuilders that have that, you know, wrap thin skin. Yeah. If you get to know some of those people and you talk to them, they, they can look like the sort of comic book archetype of what someone might, might want to be. I mean that's not what this discussion or these episodes have been about. But oftentimes they can have serious libido

1 (2h 56m 52s):
Issues. I mentioned earlier, and I will emphasize it once more, you need to be very cautious when you're taking antioxidants, anti-inflammatories, cortisol reducers for all those reasons. Right. I didn't really sort of get in examples, but you just nailed another fantastic reason of it. We do not give those things prophylactically. I, I, I strongly discourage people from just walking around taking supplementation of antioxidants, especially powerful ones for no reason. If you have done some testing and you have a good reason to do so, I'm fine. Or if you're in a very specific say training phase or something like that, cool. But if you're just walking around doing that, you are oftentimes, not always, but you are oftentimes causing problems that then you then try to solve by taking more of those anti-inflammatories.

1 (2h 57m 44s):
I feel terrible, low energy, low libido, blah blah blah blah blah, I'm too inflamed, et cetera. So yeah, antioxidants in the form of food are fantastic. Almost no issue. There is good evidence actually there, so don't worry about men, I shouldn't eat high antioxidant rich foods, you're gonna be fine. What we're talking about here is pharmaceuticals and supplementation where you can take orders of magnitude higher dosages very quickly than you could in the presence of food. So that is distinction is also very important. Antioxidant rich foods are generally fine and that's consumed in totally absurd concentrations. Supplementations powders, creams, drugs, et cetera is where you can get into problems.

1 (2h 58m 26s):
So yeah, you wanna be very careful of doing that unless you have a reason. We don't do that unless we, we see a reason to do so in someone's markers.

0 (2h 58m 33s):
Yeah. And herbal compounds, despite the fact that they're herbal can be quite potent modulators of of hormones. Ashwaganda being an example, two herbal compounds that we've talked a lot about on our podcast before and and repeatedly including in that testosterone as and optimization episode Toga Ali Andrettis toga Ali's now taken by a large number of men and women, toga Ali and Ocia, typically men, I'm not sure that there are any good studies about the effects of ocia in women. Those are herbal compounds that can have potent effects in increasing testosterone and luteinizing hormone.

0 (2h 59m 15s):
Do they work? Yeah, it they work to varying degrees in, in most everybody. Not certainly not in everybody, but they do work but they, they work because they're potent, they have effects. So the idea that herbal compounds are not powerful is wrong and it's important to remember that that can cut both ways. Hence my mention of this observation relate to turmeric, which is not to say that some people can't take turmeric and feel perfectly fine maintain or even increase their libido. I'm sure that can happen. It's just that for people that are very D H T sensitive, this tends to be an issue. So the unfortunately for many of these compounds, the only way to find out is really to try them or to just completely avoid them and decide you don't want to try them is fine too.

0 (2h 59m 59s):
But there really aren't ways to predict who will respond, who won't, and who will be hyper responds. And in that case it's a bit of a, it's a little bit of a wild west.

1 (3h 0m 10s):
I'm also sort of remembering what the point of this conversation was supposed to be and maybe I'll, I'll return back to that, which were some cost free or low cost metrics. That was a very fun tangent. But nonetheless, another couple of ones you can do are grip strength testing. So if you can buy a, you know, fairly cheap hand grip dynamometer on any number of places, these are typically able to be purchased for 20 to $40 or something like that, right? You can actually just test that every day. I've done that in a number of athletes for a decent amount of time. Admittedly I don't do it anymore and that's not because I disagree with it, but because we just were getting the information already and it was just too redundant.

1 (3h 0m 56s):
But if that's the only option, it is a great one to do. I mentioned also earlier how I actually like speed tests over strength tests as an earlier indication of overreaching. And so because of that, I like a vertical jump test. If you have access to a force plate, that's great and then you can get more in depth characteristics of the force, velocity curve and acceleration and things like that used a lot in high performance situations. If not simply looking at, you know, your performance. And so you can kind of go back to one of our earlier episodes when I described coloring my fingertips with highlighters earlier in my life. You could do the same thing and go out in your garage and every day jump up and touch that marker and see where you're at.

1 (3h 1m 37s):
So a system like that could be done. You can also use tools like force transducer and do a standard movement, I can say a vertical jump or a high pole or something like that and measure the velocity and just compare that day to day of a standard load, right? So you do it every single time with the same load, same, similar thing could be done with like a, a medicine ball throat. So you have the same ball, you throw the same thing and, and just sort of where you're at today, you want to do a little bit of warmup but not excessive here. You want to kind of get an idea of where your baseline is and you don't want to influence it by the veracity of the warmup every single day cuz that alone can change it. Same thing with stretching.

1 (3h 2m 19s):
Acute static stretching directly influences power production. So you don't wanna go out there and one day do a 20 minute stretch before and then the other day you didn't stretch at all. Cause that alone will, will cause deviations in your performance. So try to keep everything you can think of standardized and that'll give you a little bit better data. Remembering all of these values, the biomarkers, the performance stuff, they have normal variations. You just want to figure out first and foremost what those normal variations are for you. So you have your normal number, you have your standard deviation. When you start getting outside of that standard deviation, you start paying attention. And so that's kinda like what we, we typically call that the gray zone. And so if it isn't the gray zone, we're fine.

1 (3h 2m 60s):
We're not adjusting. But if it's outside of that, whatever that is for you, recognizing that the gray zone is smaller for some folks and larger for others, but what is normal for you and your situation and then you can make your decisions outside of that. When you see numbers that are consistently or more than three to five days in a row or close four, the last five days for the last six, something like that. Then you maybe have some cause for action.

0 (3h 3m 27s):
Well that was an incredible description of the various tools and modes for recovery. And I realize I jumped the gun a bit during our discussion about food and supplements, but I like to think that it serves as a nice precursor to the next episode, which is going to be all about nutrition and supplementation. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for us or comments or suggestions about topics you'd like us to cover or guests you'd like me to include on the huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comments section on YouTube.

0 (3h 4m 9s):
We do read all the comments. Please also check out the sponsors mention at the beginning and during today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. I'd also like to inform you about the Huberman Lab podcast free newsletter. It's called the Neural Network Newsletter. And each month the Neural Network Newsletter is sent out and it contains summaries of podcast episodes, specific protocols discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast. All in fairly concise format and all completely zero cost. You can sign up for the Neural Network newsletter by going to huberman lab.com, go to the menu and click on newsletter. You provide us your email. We do not share it with anybody and as I mentioned before, it's completely zero cost by going to huberman lab.com. You can also go into the menu tab and go to newsletter and see some example newsletters from months past.

0 (3h 4m 52s):
Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion about fitness, exercise, and performance with Dr. Andy Galpin. And as always, thank you for your interest in science.