Andrew Huberman (1m 35s):
So in other words, How Sugar actually changes the way that the brain works, and we discuss how the Food Industry that is the commoditization and sale of particular types of food has altered the way that we eat and Indeed the foods that we crave. Today's discussion covers all of that, and by the end of today's discussion, you'll have a thorough understanding of how foods are Processed when they enter your body, and how those different Food Choices are impacting your immediate and long-term health. Before. we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public.

Eight Sleep (2m 14s):
In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast. Our first Sponsor is Eight Sleep Eight. Sleep makes Smart mattress covers with cooling, heating, and sleep tracking capacity. I've spoken many times before in this podcast about the fact that sleep is the foundation of mental health, physical health, and performance. Now, a key component of getting a great night's sleep is that in order to fall and stay deeply asleep, your body temperature actually has to drop by about one to three degrees. And in order to wake up feeling refreshed and energized, your body temperature actually has to increase by about one to three degrees. One of the best ways to make sure that those temperature changes occur at the appropriate times at the beginning and throughout and at the end of your night when you wake up, is to control the temperature of your sleeping environment. And that's what Eight Sleep allows you to to do. It allows you to program the temperature of your mattress and sleeping environment such that you fall and stay deeply asleep easily and wake up each morning feeling incredibly refreshed and energized. I've been sleeping on an Eight Sleep mattress cover for almost three years now, and it has dramatically improved the quality of my sleep. So much so that when I travel and I'm at a hotel or an Airbnb and I don't have access to my Eight Sleep, I very much look forward to getting home because my sleep is always better when I sleep on my Eight Sleep mattress cover. If you'd like to try Eight Sleep, you can go to Eight Sleep dot com slash Huberman to get $150 off their Pod three mattress cover. Eight Sleep currently ships in the SA Canada UK select countries in the EU and Australia. Again, that's Eight Sleep dot com slash Huberman.

Levels (3m 43s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Levels. Levels is a program that lets you see how different Foods affect your health by giving you realtime feedback on your diet using a continuous Glucose monitor. One of the most important factors in your immediate and long-term health is your blood sugar or blood Glucose regulation. With levels, you can see how different foods and Food Combinations exercise and sleep patterns impact your blood Glucose levels. It's very easy to use. You just put the monitor on the back of your arm and then you take your phone and you scan it over that monitor now and again, and it downloads the data about your blood sugar levels in the preceding hours. Using Levels has allowed me to learn a tremendous amount about what works best for me in terms of nutrition, exercise, work, schedules, and sleep. So if you're interested in learning more about Levels and trying a continuous Glucose monitor, you can go to Levels. Link slash Huberman Levels has launched a new CGM sensor that is smaller and has even better tracking than the previous version. Right now, they're also offering an additional two free months of membership. Again, that's levels link slash Huberman to try the new sensor and two free months of membership.

AeroPress (4m 48s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by AeroPress. AeroPress is similar to a French press for making coffee, but is In fact a much better way to make coffee? I first learned about AeroPress well over 10 years ago, and I've been using one ever since. AeroPress was developed by Alan Adler, who was an engineer at Stanford, and I knew of Alan because he had also built the so-called a Robbi Frisbee, which I believe at one time perhaps still now, held the Guinness Book of Worlds records for furthest throne object. And I used to see Alan, believe it or not, at parks around Palo Alto testing out different a Robbi Frisbees. So he was sort of famous in our community for developing these different feats of engineering that turned into commercial products. Now, I love coffee. I'm somebody that drinks coffee nearly every day, usually about 90 to 120 minutes after I wake up in the morning. Although not always. Sometimes if I'm going to exercise, I'll drink coffee first thing in the morning. But I love, love, love coffee, and what I've personally found is that by using the AeroPress, I can make the best possible tasting cup of coffee. I don't know what exactly it is in the AeroPress that allows the same beans to be prepared into a cup of coffee that tastes that much better as compared to any other form of brewing that coffee, even the traditional French press, the AeroPress is extremely easy to use and it's extremely compact. In fact, I take it with me, Whenever, I Travel, and I use it on the road in hotels, even on planes. I'll just ask for some hot water and I'll brew my coffee or tea right there on the plane. If you'd like to try AeroPress, you can go to AeroPress dot com slash Huberman. That's A-E-R-O-P-R-E-S s.com/ Huberman to get 20% off any AeroPress coffee maker, AeroPress ships, anywhere in the usa, Canada, and over 60 other countries around the world. Again, that's AeroPress dot com slash Huberman to get 20% off. And now for my discussion with Dr. Robert Lustig,

Andrew Huberman (6m 42s):
Dr. Robert Lustig, welcome,

Robert Lustig (6m 44s):
Pleasure, truly just being here, being invited high honor. Really appreciate it. And it's not Doctor, it's just Rob.

Andrew Huberman (6m 55s):
Okay, Rob, I've been looking forward to this conversation for a long time. I've seen your now famous, can we also say infamous but famous YouTube video about sugar? We'll put a link to it in the show note captions. It's been viewed many, many millions of times.

Robert Lustig (7m 10s):
Yeah. and I still can't figure out why that is. You know, well, I can't. I didn't think my mother would watch it, and she didn't. But 24 and a half million people did.

Andrew Huberman (7m 17s):
Well, I think people are very interested in what to eat, what not to eat. And we'll start off simply talking about what most everyone believes in understands, which is that a Caloric is a form of heat energy That's given off during the processing of some food bit or some thing. If that's mysterious to people. Just understand that a Caloric is a unit of energy and I was taught, and still many, many people worldwide believe that a Caloric is a Caloric. Meaning if I consume more calories in whatever form than I metabolize by thinking, feeling, moving, exercising, et cetera, then I will gain weight.

Andrew Huberman (8m 3s):
And if I consume fewer calories than I Burn, I will lose weight. And we could talk a lot about where that weight loss comes from. Does it come from adipose body fat stores or from Muscle or from Protein or Muscle, of course is protein, et cetera. But let's start off with is a Caloric, truly a Caloric when it comes to the processing of different types of calories?

Robert Lustig (8m 30s):
Everyone thinks that obesity is about energy balance. That is calories in calories out. Therefore two behaviors, glutton and sloth. Therefore, if you're fat, it's your fault. Therefore diet and exercise, therefore, any Caloric can be part of a balanced diet. Therefore, don't pick on our calories. Go pick on somebody else's calories. This is actually what the Food Industry uses to assuage their culpability for the change in the food supply and the rise in obesity and chronic disease like Diabetes.

Robert Lustig (9m 11s):
Now, it is true that a Caloric is that unit of energy that raises one gram of water, one degrees centigrade, and so therefore a Caloric burned is a Caloric burned. I don't argue that that's true. That's, you know, the first law thermodynamics. But that doesn't mean a Caloric eaten is a Caloric eaten. That's not the same. And that's where people get it wrong. So let me give you some examples of how that Caloric eaten. Is not a Caloric eaten you like almonds? I do. Me too.

Robert Lustig (9m 51s):
Almonds are great. Okay, you eat 160 calories in almonds. How many of those do you absorb? 130, you eat 160, you absorb 130. Where'd the other 30 go in the processing of that food energy? No. Turned out the fiber in those almonds, both soluble and insoluble fiber. And by the way, fiber's sort of the key to the kingdom in this story forms a gel on the inside of your intestine, the insoluble Fiber. The cellulose forms a fishnet, if you will, a lattice work on the inside of your duodenum.

Robert Lustig (10m 32s):
The soluble fiber, which are gular, plug the holes in that fishnet together, they form a secondary barrier. You can actually see it on electron microscopy, A whitish gel. And that prevents absorption of those 30 calories. So yes, 130 get absorbed, but many of them don't. They end up going further down the intestine to the next part called the jejunum. And that's where the Microbiome is. Now, everyone knows about the Microbiome nowadays. You know, it's all the bacteria. You know, we always say when women are pregnant, you're eating for two. Well, we're always eating for a hundred trillion. Now they have to eat.

Robert Lustig (11m 13s):
Well, what do they eat? They eat what you eat. The question is how much did you get versus how much did they get? Well, if you ate almonds, they're getting those 30 Calories. So even though you count the calories at your lips, that doesn't matter. What really matters is counting the Calories at your intestinal brush border, okay? And they're not the same. So if you feed your Gut, that's a good thing because then your Gut will take those calories and turn it into things like short chain fatty acids, which end up being protective against chronic metabolic disease. Acetate, propionate, butyrate, valor. Those are actually good. They're anti-inflammatory, anti Alzheimer's, because you fed your Microbiome.

Robert Lustig (11m 59s):
So even though you ate 160, you absorbed 130. So a Caloric eaten is not a Caloric eaten because if you ate it with fiber, it wasn't for you, it was for your bacteria. But that's not the way you count them up. So that's problem number one. Problem number two, amino acids. So we all eat Protein. Let's say you eat too much protein, you have, you know, the porterhouse steak. Alright? Now, if you're a bodybuilder, those amino acids might go to Muscle and you might increase your Muscle mass because you're a bodybuilder, because you're putting excess force on those muscles and you're growing those muscles.

Robert Lustig (12m 42s):
Okay? But let's say you're not a bodybuilder. Let's say you're a mere mortal like me,

Andrew Huberman (12m 46s):
Or let's say you're a kid going through puberty who's synthesizing a lot of Muscle. Yeah. Not because they're lifting weights, because they're in, but

Robert Lustig (12m 53s):
Because testosterone's making it happen, right? Yeah, absolutely. But let's say you're not, let's say, you know, you're just, you know, just slump off the, the street like you know Joe Schmo, okay? And you eat that porterhouse, you've taken on all these amino acids. There's no place to store it other than Muscle. So your liver takes the excess and deaminate, that amino Acid takes the amino group off to turn it from a amino Acid into an organic Acid. And then that organic Acid can then enter the Krebs cycle, the tricarboxylic Acid cycle, what goes on in the Mitochondria in order to generate a TP, the chemical energy that your body needs in order to power itself.

Robert Lustig (13m 34s):
Okay? Now that's a good thing. It takes double the amount of energy to prepare that amino Acid for burning as it does to pr prepare a Carbohydrate for burning or fat. So for

Andrew Huberman (13m 50s):
Or, because when I asked about, when you asked about almonds, why the, the one 60 versus one 30, I thought it was the processing, it turned out it was Fiber. You're saying for Protein, let's, let's make it realistic for a, a really nice big porterhouse steak, which I love, by the way. Let's say me too. Let's say 800 calories. Yeah.

Robert Lustig (14m 8s):
Well,

Andrew Huberman (14m 8s):
It turns out how, how much of that is, is, so that's what goes in your mouth,

Robert Lustig (14m 12s):
Right?

Andrew Huberman (14m 13s):
My mouth, right? How much of it is actually eaten in to stay with the, your Caloric eaten is not a Caloric eaten In the processing of that, what percentages actually goes into your total Caloric intake,

Robert Lustig (14m 28s):
Right? So about 10% of everything you eat goes to just maintaining body temperature. It's called the thermic effect of food. But when you're eating protein, you actually generate more heat. And the reason is because it takes two a TP to phosphorylate that organic Acid as opposed to one a TP to phosphorylate that Carbohydrate for consumption. So you actually have a net loss of energy because it was a, an amino Acid versus a monosaccharide a, a sugar. Now you, you brought up fat, fat doesn't need to be phosphorylated.

Robert Lustig (15m 9s):
So it actually doesn't have any thermic effect of food at that point. So depends on what it is as to whether or not you have loss.

Andrew Huberman (15m 19s):
Okay? So, but in this, let's make it actually realistic, a 1600 Caloric porter house with a nice slab of, of butter, of grass fed butter on there. Okay? I do this every once in a while. Not, not often, but with

Robert Lustig (15m 33s):
Some cream spinach and maybe some mushrooms along the side. Honestly,

Andrew Huberman (15m 35s):
I see it when I'm eating a porterhouse. I don't want to adulterate the taste okay with anything else except maybe some, some butter, maybe a salad, okay.

Robert Lustig (15m 44s):
Afterwards.

Andrew Huberman (15m 45s):
But, but let's say 1600 Calories of, of it's got some fat in there for sure. Let's say a thousand of those. Calories is Protein, the other 600 are fat.

Robert Lustig (15m 58s):
Something like

Andrew Huberman (15m 58s):
That. Something like that, depending on how marbled it is. Okay? So based on what you just said about the thermic effect of food and protein in particular, yeah. Of that thousand calories, how much actually is, can we count? I'm not a Caloric counter, but does one include as calories truly ingested?

Robert Lustig (16m 16s):
Well, if you ingested 1600,

Andrew Huberman (16m 18s):
Well that's what went in the mouth. But, but, but, but what is is gonna go against your, your Burn deficit, right?

Robert Lustig (16m 25s):
So I would have to actually do the math to figure that out. But yeah, as a guess, yeah,

Andrew Huberman (16m 31s):
Back of the envelope.

Robert Lustig (16m 32s):
Back of the envelope calculation, you're gonna lose about 25% of that. Wow.

Andrew Huberman (16m 36s):
So we're talking 750 calories. Yeah. You know, so, and to translate this a bit, so what we're saying here is if you're somebody who is trying to lose weight or maintain weight, or perhaps even gain weight, you eat a 1600 Caloric porterhouse with a slab of butter on it. 600 of those calories we're saying in this instance is Fat, but the remaining thousand calories, that's that all went in your mouth,

Robert Lustig (17m 1s):
But you count it at your mouth,

Andrew Huberman (17m 2s):
Right? But 700. But then when you compare it against your energy Burn for that day to maintain temperature, brain activity, physical activity, really it's only 750 calories. That's right. That's a huge difference.

Robert Lustig (17m 15s):
Exactly. And another reason why a Caloric is not a Caloric. Now let's take the third, let's take Fats. So over here we have Omega threes, heart healthy anti-inflammatory anti Alzheimer's, save your life. And over here we have Trans Fats, the devil incarnate consumable poison. Because you can't break the Trans double bond. You don't have the desaturase to break that Trans double bond. So it basically accumulates lines your arteries, lines your liver, Causes, chronic Metabolic disease, Causes, Insulin, Resistance, Omega threes don't even get broken down for energy because they're so important.

Robert Lustig (17m 57s):
They stay intact because your brain needs them, your heart needs them. Whereas Trans Fats can't be broken down because of that Trans double bond. One, save your life, other one kill you. They're both nine calories per gram if you explode 'em in a bomb calorimeter, because a Caloric burned is a Caloric burned. But a Caloric eaten is not a Caloric eaten because one will save your life, one will kill you. And finally, the big kahuna, the one that blows everything else out of the water. Fructose and Glucose. Alright, now Glucose is the energy of life.

Andrew Huberman (18m 32s):
So here we're talking carbohydrates. I think most of our audience will be familiar with the, so-called macronutrients. So we talked about fat in this case. Almonds, right? There's some fiber in there, probably a little bit of Carbohydrate. A little bit. Little bit. We talked about the porterhouse with butter, right? You can be hungry already. That's Protein and Fat, very little, if any Carbohydrate that should zero essentially maybe 1 0, 0, yeah. Yeah. And then now we're talking about carbohydrates. And we're gonna subdivide that into Glucose and fructose, right?

Robert Lustig (19m 2s):
Galactose basically becomes Glucose in the liver. So we, we can dispense with that unless you have a disease called galactosemia, which is about one in 20,000 and Causes neonatal meningitis. And you know, it's a disease as a pediatric endocrinologist I would take care of. But we can dispense with that for the moment. Alright, so Glucose fructose. Glucose is the energy of life. Every cell on the planet burns Glucose for energy. Glucose is so damn important that if you don't consume it, your body makes it. So it will take an amino Acid and turn it into Glucose. That's

Andrew Huberman (19m 36s):
Gluconeogenesis.

Robert Lustig (19m 37s):
Gluconeogenesis. That's right. It'll take a fatty Acid and turn it into Glucose. And specifically the glycerol portion of the triglyceride will turn into Glucose. So the Inuit, they didn't have any place to grow Carbohydrate. They had ice, they had whale blubber. They still had a serum Glucose level. And the reason is because you had to, you have to have a serum Glucose level in order to power your brain. In order to power your heart. Yes, you, you can use ketones, of course you can, but you know, only if you're in a ketogenic state where you use exclusively ketones. And you also need Glucose for structural changes in specific proteins and particularly hormones.

Robert Lustig (20m 24s):
So Glucose molecules will stud TSH, lh, FSH, different pituitary hormones in order to increase their potency. It's one of the reasons why aging leads to defective hor agenesis. For instance, hypogonadism hypothyroidism. Is the loss of glycosylation on individual peptide hormones because of the inability to add Glucose,

Andrew Huberman (20m 54s):
Those because of insulin

Robert Lustig (20m 56s):
Insensitivity? No, just, it's an aging phenomenon.

Andrew Huberman (20m 58s):
Okay, we'll come back to this. 'cause I think that's really important. Yeah. The idea that the ingestion of carbohydrates and the, as you called it, the studying of Carbohydrate molecules on hormones can augment the function of those hormones. And with aging, that's a less efficient process. It's a

Robert Lustig (21m 15s):
Less efficient process. But it's not because of consumption. It's

Andrew Huberman (21m 19s):
Right. People are still, I, I see the, the plenty of folks who are 65 and older eating plenty of carbohydrates. Yeah, you're saying a lot of them have deficient thyroid, testosterone, estrogen, right. Prolactin, et cetera. Because of the weights. Those carbohydrates are not studying the, the

Robert Lustig (21m 40s):
Hormones. Exactly. So they're interesting. All of those are glycoprotein hormones.

Andrew Huberman (21m 44s):
Let's tee that up for later. 'cause I think that's an interesting, it's a very important avenue to

Robert Lustig (21m 46s):
Go down. Okay. And there's a, and there's a disease in children, in, in babies called congenital disorders of glycosylation, where you can't put Glucose mo molecules on specific proteins. And it Causes severe mental retardation, all sorts of Metabolic havoc. And a lot of those babies die for that matter. So that's an important thing, alright? But that's how important Glucose is. Fructose, on the other hand, this sweet molecule, the molecule we seek, the reason why the Food Industry studs every food in the grocery store, you know, 73% of all items in the American grocery store have Added Sugar on purpose for the food industry's purpose is not for yours because fructose is addictive.

Robert Lustig (22m 35s):
Activates the nucleus, accumbens the reward center of the brain in the same way that ho cocaine, heroin, nicotine, alcohol do and drives dopamine receptors down. Just like nicotine. You know, alcohol, you know, cocaine, heroin do that. Molecule fructose is number one completely vestigial to all vertebrate life. There is no biochemical reaction in any vertebrate that requires dietary fructose. That's number one. Number two,

Andrew Huberman (23m 9s):
Okay, sorry, I'm gonna just, so you're saying that even though we can process fructose,

Robert Lustig (23m 15s):
We have a limited capacity to process it in the same way we have a limited capacity to metabolize alcohol. Now if you have one drink a day, yeah, you're okay. If you have two drinks a day, depends on how big you are. You know, you and I can probably do two.

Andrew Huberman (23m 30s):
I would argue two drinks a week is the maximum. But, but let's not go there. The but. But in terms of, you're saying when you say fructose processing of fructose is vestigial, what you're saying is that we don't need to do it. That's right. It's like the appendix, it's an organ for which it has no function.

Robert Lustig (23m 47s):
Exactly. And fructose has no function in the human body. Period.

Andrew Huberman (23m 52s):
You don't need it.

Robert Lustig (23m 53s):
You don't need it, you don't need it. But our diet is replete with it. In fact, our fructose consumption's gone up 25 fold since the beginning of the last century.

Andrew Huberman (24m 6s):
I, I have to ask this now. I love fruit. I eat berries galore. Yep. Especially since the price of berry seems to have come down. It used to be that you only get 'em certain times a year. I'm what you call a drive by blueberry eater. Okay. So I'll just walk past and just take a fistful. You can't put them in front of me without me eating them. This is even difficult for me when other people I don't know are eating them. Right. I eat lots of blueberries, strawberries, blackberries, if they're in season, I love them.

Robert Lustig (24m 33s):
No problem.

Andrew Huberman (24m 34s):
Loaded with

Robert Lustig (24m 34s):
Fructose. No

Andrew Huberman (24m 35s):
Plenty of fiber. Low Fructose.

Robert Lustig (24m 38s):
Low fructose in berries. Berries are the lowest fructose of all the

Andrew Huberman (24m 41s):
Differents. I'm so worried about asking you this today. Not thank you. Okay. Okay.

Robert Lustig (24m 45s):
And Fruit is okay because of the Fiber. So the molecule, the Fructose molecules the same, whether it's in a berry or in a banana or for that matter, in a Coca-Cola, the fructose molecule is the same molecule. The difference is that in the berry, it comes with a whole lot of Fiber and the banana comes with a whole lot less Fiber. And in the Coca-Cola, it doesn't come with any fiber. And the fiber is what mitigates the absorption. So when you consume the fructose with fiber, so your blueberries, you're feeding your Microbiome. That fructose wasn't for you.

Andrew Huberman (25m 25s):
Got it. Such a Relief. And I, I must say recently I had a whole body MRI as a

Robert Lustig (25m 32s):
A preemptive

Andrew Huberman (25m 33s):
Thing. How was that? It was, it was great. I got to watch a Netflix in there and I'd never had a whole body MRI, I learned a few things that were useful to me. Right. I've got a clean bill of health. So that's great. Well that's good. But one, one of the pieces of feedback I got is that my gut was filled with this very high contrast stuff, right? And they asked, you know, do you consume a lot of blueberries? and I said Indeed, I do. Why? And they said, because that high contrast of it shows up white on the scan is high concentrations of magnesium that we see in people that ingest large amounts of blueberries, which is pretty rare. And yours are comparable to a bear in blueberry season.

Andrew Huberman (26m 15s):
Wow. And basically my entire gut was filled with, with blueberries. I suppose I need to cut back a little bit, but now I know that Fruit is okay, especially if the Fruit has a lot of Fiber. Yeah. But fructose itself, especially if it's not partnered with fiber. Yeah. Is first of all not required for survival at all. But you're telling me is problematic. Yeah.

Robert Lustig (26m 36s):
And let me tell you why it's problematic. We haven't gotten to that yet. We're just talking about whether it's vestigial versus needed. Now let's talk about what Fructose does. Turns out fructose inhibits three count 'em three separate enzymes necessary for normal mitochondrial function. Now I hold your Mitochondria, make a TP, your Mitochondria have to work at peak efficiency. That's what Metabolic Health is. Is Mitochondria working at peak efficiency? Well, there are three enzymes that are inhibited by fructose number 1:00 AM P kinase.

Robert Lustig (27m 15s):
Alright? Now a MP kinase is the fuel gauge on the liver cell. It's the thing that tells the liver to make more Mitochondria fresher Mitochondria. Because if your a MP levels are high, that means you've dephosphorylated a bunch of ATPs and you have to regenerate 'em. So you need some more Mitochondria. So it's a negative feedback pathway. Well you need that a MP kinase to generate that mitochondrial biogenesis signal. Except that fructose, a metabolite fructose called methyl glyoxal. MGO sits in the active site of the gamma subunit of that a MP kinase and actually binds to arginine in that active site rendering that enzyme now dead.

Robert Lustig (28m 1s):
It's an irreversible inhibition because of the covalent bonding of that methyl glyoxal that aldehyde to the arginine. And now that enzyme is dead.

Andrew Huberman (28m 12s):
Okay. So it basically acts like a key that doesn't turn the lock but prevents the, the key that you want in that lock. Yeah. From entering the, the

Robert Lustig (28m 20s):
Lock. Yeah. It's like, it's like gluing a lock shut. Yeah. Got it. Alright.

Andrew Huberman (28m 24s):
So that's one of the enzymes.

Robert Lustig (28m 25s):
That's one. Okay. Second one A had L acyl COA dehydrogenase long chain. So this is necessary to cleave two carbon fragments of fatty acids to prepare them for metabolism. So it inhibits that one. And then finally it inhibits carnitine palm transferase one. Now CCPT one. Now that's the enzyme that regenerates carnitine. Carnitine is the shuttle mechanism by which you get the fatty acids from the outer mitochondrial membrane through to the inner mitochondrial membrane so that they can be beta oxidized for energy. So if you don't have that C CCPT one, you're basically carnitine less and therefore you can't generate beta oxidation.

Robert Lustig (29m 14s):
You

Andrew Huberman (29m 14s):
Said fructose inhibits all three of these enzymatic pathways. Yep. As a biologist, I have to ask, you know, how potently does it inhibit them? I mean, 'cause there's, there are drugs that block receptors and then there are drugs that block receptors with in unbelievable affinity. Sure. So, you know, I mean, mechanistically in a dish, meaning in vitro you can see all sorts of things. But how, how significant is this for like, for obesity, for mitochondrial function in vivo in us? Alright,

Robert Lustig (29m 41s):
So look, you know the, the dose determines the poison, right? Paracelsus 1537, there are toxins that are parts per billion and will kill you. Like s and ryon cyanide. By the way, cyanide, it's a good analogy because it's working on Mitochondria. It's basically causing mitochondrial to be completely defective. Alright? Then there are intermediate toxins like arsenic and carbon tetrachloride parts per million. And they take a little longer to work. They're not gonna kill you on the spot. That's

Andrew Huberman (30m 18s):
Why I can eat an apple seed that has a little bit of arsenic in it, but I'm not gonna die. Right?

Robert Lustig (30m 23s):
And then finally there and by the Tobacco smoke goes in there and then finally you have weak toxins. Alright? And you know where it's not one exposure that will kill you. It's, you know, 10,000 exposures that'll kill you. Like alcohol

Andrew Huberman (30m 38s):
Or toxic people. Yeah.

Robert Lustig (30m 40s):
Toxic well sometimes depends. Sometimes it

Andrew Huberman (30m 42s):
Only takes one. Depends on toxic. Couldn't resist. Sorry. Sometimes it don't mildly toxic people.

Robert Lustig (30m 46s):
Anyway, the point is that fructose is in that last category. Hmm. So it's not what you do one day that kills you. It's what you do every day that kills you. And if you basically eat Ultra, Processed, Food high in sugar for 10 years in a row, it's gonna show up in terms of your comorbidities. And ultimately, yeah, it will kill you. And we have the data to show, you know, how many years you'll lose. So right now in America, we pay an eight year longevity tax. If you look at Japan, who they have a mean age of death of 88, we have a mean age of 80.

Robert Lustig (31m 34s):
Okay? We're paying an eight year longevity tax just by living here. And we're talking about the healthy people. Now if you have metabolic syndrome, it's a 15 year longevity tax. And sorry, if you have obesity, it's a 15 year longevity tax. And if you have metabolic syndrome, it's a 20 year longevity tax that is primarily, not completely, but primarily sugar. It's also, you know, Omega sixes. It's also Trans, Fats, you know, leftover. Because now they're gone. But you know, people are still suffering the ravages of the Trans Fats, you know, from the previous generation.

Andrew Huberman (32m 7s):
Are they gone? I mean, I do remember as a kid when we had margarine in our refrigerator. This is actually a big debate in my home. Yep. One parent I won't identify, which was pro margarine, the other was Probut anti margarine. Right. The marriage didn't last. But there were other reasons. That's

Robert Lustig (32m 24s):
Probably why I went

Andrew Huberman (32m 25s):
Butter.

Robert Lustig (32m 27s):
Yeah, butter. Butter is fine. In fact time declared, you know, front cover butter's back, you know, margarine was the bad guy without question. And we know now, but you know, back when we thought it was a Caloric was a Caloric. We thought, oh, margarine, you know, it's the same, you know, nine calories per gram. And we said it lowers your triglycerides bad idea. It was because what it did was it lined your liver because you couldn't break that Trans double bond. And you know, so they're, they're now gone from our food supply.

Robert Lustig (33m 8s):
They're

Andrew Huberman (33m 8s):
Illegal.

Robert Lustig (33m 9s):
They're illegal, they're banned. But you can make Trans Fats in your own kitchen by taking olive oil and heating it to beyond the smoking point. So they're not completely gone, they're just gone from Ultra, Processed, Food. So now sugar's the big problem because of these three enzymes that you are inhibiting. The point is, we were, we started this with a Caloric is a Caloric. Well if you are inhibiting mitochondrial function, then a Caloric is not a Caloric is it?

Andrew Huberman (33m 36s):
You're reducing the intensity of the furnace. Yeah,

Robert Lustig (33m 40s):
Exactly. So this whole Calories a Caloric just makes no sense. And it hasn't worked at any level. And there is no study that actually shows that cutting calories makes a difference. and I can show you, you know, voluminous data that shows that virtually every weight loss study that caused, that led to, you know, Caloric restriction basically didn't work. Not for any length of time.

Andrew Huberman (34m 5s):
Just to round out our earlier discussion, 'cause I find it fascinating and I know other people will as well talked about that 160 calories, that's actually 130 at the business end of things. Yep. Of almonds. We talked about the porterhouse steak with butter and the 25% reduction in what's actually quote unquote eaten. and I, I'll get back to this 'cause this quote unquote issue. I think the problem is there's, there's a lack of useful language to dissociate this stuff. Yeah. You know, even just calling Fat fat people think it means it's gonna make you gain body fat. Totally. If we called it adipose tissue and lipids, we would've avoided this confusion. So I don't, I don't want to get there just yet, but I I wanna make sure with the

Robert Lustig (34m 46s):
Food Industry does this on purpose, really? Oh, absolutely. So they tell you a sugar is a sugar, which is not true. They tell you a Caloric is a Caloric, which is not true. And they tell you a fat is a fat, which is not true. Okay. This is very specifically, so when you're talking about sugar, you're talking about dietary sugar or you're talking about blood sugar. 'cause blood sugar is blood Glucose, right? Or cholesterol and I

Andrew Huberman (35m 9s):
Never use dietary cholesterol or circulating cholesterol or,

Robert Lustig (35m 13s):
You know. Absolutely. Yeah. Okay. So we, we've done this, you know, to ourselves, but the Food Industry has really promulgated it because we farmed out nutrition policy and information to the Food Industry. So they actually use this for their purposes. It's one of the problems in this field,

AG1 (35m 33s):
As we all know, quality nutrition influences, of course our physical health, but also our mental health and our cognitive functioning, our memory, our ability to learn new things and to focus. And we know that one of the most important features of high quality nutrition is making sure that we get enough vitamins and minerals from high quality unprocessed or minimally Processed sources, as well as enough probiotics and prebiotics and fiber to support basically all the cellular functions in our body, including the gut Microbiome. Now I, like most everybody, try to get optimal nutrition from whole foods, ideally, mostly from minimally Processed or non-processed Foods. However, one of the challenges that I and so many other people face is getting enough servings of high quality fruits and vegetables per day, as well as fiber and probiotics that often accompany those fruits and vegetables. That's why way back in 2012, long before I ever had a podcast, I started drinking AG one. And so I'm delighted that AG one is sponsoring the Huberman Lab podcast. The reason I started taking AG one, and the reason I still drink AG one once or twice a day, is that it provides all of my foundational nutritional needs. That is, it provides insurance that I get the proper amounts of those vitamins, minerals, probiotics, and Fiber to ensure optimal mental health, physical health and performance. If you'd like to try AG one, you can go to drink AG one.com/ Huberman to claim a special offer. They're giving away five free travel packs plus a year supply of Vitamin D three K two. Again, that's drink AG one.com/ Huberman to claim that special offer

Robert Lustig (37m 5s):
For

Andrew Huberman (37m 5s):
The third category of macronutrients, carbohydrates, you differentiated Glucose and fructose. If I ingest, let's say a

Robert Lustig (37m 16s):
Half a bagel,

Andrew Huberman (37m 18s):
Since we were talking about New York, your city of origin, they have great bagels on the west coast.

Robert Lustig (37m 22s):
Yeah, I know.

Andrew Huberman (37m 23s):
It's, it's, it's not the same. It's,

Robert Lustig (37m 24s):
It's pretty pitiful.

Andrew Huberman (37m 25s):
It's same with the pizza dough. It's like they claim it's the, the, the water what, whatever it is, it's different back there and it's better

Robert Lustig (37m 30s):
Indeed,

Andrew Huberman (37m 32s):
Half a bagel, let's say 250 calories, mostly Carbohydrate. This is an, an unlined un no cream cheese, no smear as they call back there. No, no cream cheese, no butter, none of that thing. Just half a, a bagel, two 50 calories. So that's what I ate. You're saying that a Caloric eaten is not a Caloric eaten. How much of that Carbohydrate, given that it's probably most, let's assume it's mostly Glucose. Let's do it this way. Yeah, it

Robert Lustig (37m 55s):
Is. It's polymerized. Glucose. Okay.

Andrew Huberman (37m 56s):
Polymerized Glucose. How much of that is actually utilized or burned versus, you know, the, the original two

Robert Lustig (38m 5s):
50. So if you look at what happens to energy in the body, 65% of that which is ingested, goes to resting energy expenditure just to power the body. 10% goes to the thermic effect of food and then 25% goes to activity. That's the breakdown of where the energy

Andrew Huberman (38m 28s):
Goes. And that's calories from fat Protein and Carbohydrate. Yeah,

Robert Lustig (38m 32s):
From everything together. And you know, Glucose is a perfectly good example of how that works. The point is though, that when you ingest Glucose, you're getting a big Glucose excursion in your bloodstream. So you're getting a big Glucose spike and that Glucose spike has to come down. Well, what makes it come down? The hormone insulin. Insulin is the bad guy in this story. The higher your Glucose goes, the more your pancreas will release insulin in order to bring that Glucose down. Well it turns out that Glucose rise was not benign. That Glucose rise led to endothelial dysfunction.

Robert Lustig (39m 11s):
Transient, but nonetheless endothelial dysfunction.

Andrew Huberman (39m 14s):
Could you just remind people what endothelial cells are

Robert Lustig (39m 17s):
The inside of your arteries? Okay. And it will change blood pressure. We've got plenty of data to demonstrate how it changes blood pressure. And over time that will cause coronary artery disease that will cause kidney disease, et cetera. But it's the Insulin response that is really the bad guy. Now people think insulin is good because it lowers blood Glucose. After all, diabetics take insulin, you know, to lower their blood. Glucose. Okay, let's take a diabetic patient with Diabetes blood sugar's 300. That's bad. We give 'em a shot of insulin in the arm. Blood sugar goes down to 100.

Robert Lustig (39m 58s):
Blood sugar went from 300 to 100. Okay, where did the 200 points of blood Glucose go?

Andrew Huberman (40m 8s):
I'm assuming that the Insulin w sequestered it

Robert Lustig (40m 11s):
To where,

Andrew Huberman (40m 13s):
I'm assuming to the liver,

Robert Lustig (40m 14s):
To the Fat.

Andrew Huberman (40m 16s):
Interesting

Robert Lustig (40m 16s):
For storage, that's insulin's job. Insulin takes whatever you're not burning and puts it into Fat for storage. Insulin is not the Diabetes hormone. Insulin is the energy storage hormone.

Andrew Huberman (40m 27s):
How quickly does it do that? Because, pretty quick. Because if I'm, you know, having a na a very busy day or the diabetic person is having a very busy day and they're moving around a lot, then you've got Insulin bound Glucose in the bloodstream. For how

Robert Lustig (40m 42s):
Long? No, no. Insulin doesn't bind. Glucose Insulin binds to its receptor. Sure. Sorry, sorry. And allows for Glucose transporters to

Andrew Huberman (40m 49s):
Work. That's right. So, so, but for some period of time while that person is active, there's an opportunity to utilize that Glucose. Well, yeah. Right? Yeah. So how quickly is insulin managing that Glucose? We know that the spike comes down quickly, but the Glucose is not available for energy utilization after what? It's, or it's, it's sequestered to the, the adipose to the fat tissue within an hour.

Robert Lustig (41m 13s):
Is that about right? So about 90 minutes. Yeah, but okay. I mean that's you if you're, if you're active, if you eat, you know, a muffin and you're active, okay, your muscles are going to take up that Glucose irrespective of Insulin. In fact muscles are Insulin independent. They have Glucose transporters, but they're insulin independent because if they weren't then every patient in diabetic ketoacidosis would be paralyzed. Okay. So Glucose will end up in muscles irrespective of energy status and insulin status.

Andrew Huberman (41m 48s):
And in muscles it's used as immediate fuel and glycogen.

Robert Lustig (41m 52s):
Both. Okay. Media tool and glycogen storage. Okay. In the Muscle? Absolutely. Alright. Now if you are active, then you'll clear Glucose into Muscle. Therefore your blood Glucose won't rise as much 'cause it went into Muscle and therefore your pancreas will put out less Insulin because it doesn't have to clear as much from the bloodstream. And that's okay. That's good. Right? But let's say you didn't exercise. So you've got a big Glucose excursion. Now you have a big Insulin response and that Insulin is going to take the excess that's in your blood, it has to clear it and it will go to Fat for storage. That insulin rise turns out to be particularly egregious in terms of metabolic disease and I can prove it.

Robert Lustig (42m 39s):
There is a mouse. My favorite mouse. I love this mouse. This mouse turns medicine on its head and teaches every doctor why they have to go back to medical school and learn it. Right? This mouse is called the PKO mouse. P-O-D-I-R-K-O.

Andrew Huberman (42m 58s):
Is it discovered by

Robert Lustig (42m 59s):
Pko? No. No. It was discovered in Ron Con's lab. It was manufactured in Ron Con's lab. So this is a tissue specific Insulin receptor knockout mouse. Okay. IRKO Insulin receptor. So

Andrew Huberman (43m 11s):
LA insulin receptor in specific In the kidney. In the kidney. Interesting.

Robert Lustig (43m 15s):
Called dural glomerular podocyte insulin receptor knockout mouse.

Andrew Huberman (43m 20s):
Okay. We haven't talked too much about transgenic models and knockins and knockouts. So just in 10 seconds or less, basically these are mice that are genetically engineered to lack the receptor for insulin. Specifically in the

Robert Lustig (43m 35s):
Glomerular podocyte. The kidney

Andrew Huberman (43m 37s):
In the, in the kidney. Right. And everywhere else in this mouse, insulin does its thing normally. Exactly.

Robert Lustig (43m 42s):
Great. So these animals are u glycemic, normal blood Glucose levels. These animals are normally Glucose tolerant. They, you know, go up, they go down just like every other mouse. These mice are not fat. These mice are not thin. These mice are mice except they have the worst diabetic nephropathy on the planet.

Andrew Huberman (44m 9s):
So their nerve, oh, their kidney is degenerative, their

Robert Lustig (44m 12s):
Kidneys degenerate to nothing. Yikes. Now they have normal blood Glucose levels. They have normal Glucose tolerance, they have normal insulin tolerance. Whole body. But their kidneys are dying. How come? Can't be the Glucose. It's the Insulin because insulin's the bad guy, insulin's actually making the kidney disease. And so these animals that are insulin resistant, they have diabetic nephropathy without Diabetes.

Andrew Huberman (44m 47s):
So the Insulin is having a negative, clearly negative effect on the kidneys without binding to the receptor. Exactly. So circulating insulin can do stuff without binding to its receptor.

Robert Lustig (44m 59s):
Well it's, no, it binds to its receptor in different parts of the body.

Andrew Huberman (45m 2s):
Other parts of the body. Oh, other parts of in the kidney it can't 'cause it's a knockout. Because it's

Robert Lustig (45m 5s):
Knockout. Right. The point is insulin does stuff by itself and it turns out insulin drives growth. Now every cell in your body wants to Burn at one time in its life and wants to grow at another time in its life. Every cell has those two pathways. Burning growth, burning growth. What determines whether a cell should be burning or whether a cell should be growing?

Andrew Huberman (45m 40s):
I don't know what makes it burning, but presumably it's in the, has something to do with Mitochondria. It

Robert Lustig (45m 45s):
Has everything to do. Not a con. Right. So every cell needs to Burn and needs to grow at a different time in it's life. Here's a way to think about it. We all start out as a zygote, a single cell. We end up an adult. Now that single cell had to become two cells. Those two cells had to become four cells. Those four cells had to become eight cells and on and on and on and on. So every cycle there's a doubling how many doublings to get from a zygote to an adult.

Andrew Huberman (46m 24s):
It's an exponential growth. So yeah, I don't, I don't know it off the top of my head.

Robert Lustig (46m 30s):
41, 41, 41 2 to the 41 doublings will get

Andrew Huberman (46m 35s):
You, gives you an

Robert Lustig (46m 36s):
Organism. 10 trillion cells

Andrew Huberman (46m 38s):
We're 10 trillion cells we're 10 trillion

Robert Lustig (46m 39s):
Cells. Do we know that? Yeah.

Andrew Huberman (46m 41s):
Okay.

Robert Lustig (46m 43s):
Two to the 41. Okay. Okay. Now of those 41 doublings, some of them had to occur in utero, some of them had to occur postnatally. So I need two numbers that add up to 41. How many in utero? How many postnatally?

Andrew Huberman (47m 2s):
Well, way more. You start off with a lot more than you end up with, but then you have cells that turn over throughout the lifespan. Yeah. This is a tough one. Okay. Because skin cells turnover. Sure. I I, with neurons, it's, it's pretty straightforward because you're gonna somewhere between 10, what

Robert Lustig (47m 18s):
You get, three and 10,

Andrew Huberman (47m 19s):
What you get, right? Well you're, and you're born with somewhere between three and 10 x of what you end up with depending on the brain structure. Yeah. So, but whole body wide, I don't know how you'd come up with

Robert Lustig (47m 27s):
That number. 36 and five. Okay. 36 doublings prenatally, five doublings postnatally, and I can prove that to you too. Typical baby weighs seven pounds, first doubling 14 pounds, second doubling 28 pounds. Next doubling 56 pounds. Next doubling 112 pounds. Next doubling 224 pounds. That's hopefully it stops there. Obese individual.

Andrew Huberman (47m 50s):
Hopefully it stops there. Not, not all people 212 pounds are obese. But some people who are of certain heights or below are 212 are obese. Okay.

Robert Lustig (47m 60s):
Point is the cell has to know when to grow and when to Burn. And it turns out that the signal for that is Oxygen because oxygen's necessary for Mitochondria to be able to Burn in the absence of Oxygen, the cell only knows how to grow. And this is actually why OT Warberg won the Nobel Prize in 1931 for the Warburg effect. He asked the question, how come cancer cells don't need Oxygen to grow? And the answer is 'cause no cell needs Oxygen to grow In fact, Oxygen is the thing that prevents growth.

Robert Lustig (48m 41s):
Famous article from the New England Journal of Medicine, 1951, Mount Everest in utero, because every fetus is Oxygen deprived. So normal partial pressure of Oxygen a hundred millimeters of mercury out here. Right. If you, if I checked your blood, it'd be about a hundred, right?

Andrew Huberman (49m 3s):
I hope so.

Robert Lustig (49m 4s):
How about a tumor cell?

Andrew Huberman (49m 7s):
I'm guessing tumor cells probably. Is it double?

Robert Lustig (49m 11s):
About 44.

Andrew Huberman (49m 13s):
Wait, you just told me partial

Robert Lustig (49m 14s):
Pressure of, of Oxygen in a tumor cell. It's about 44.

Andrew Huberman (49m 18s):
Well, you just told me that. Well, tumor cells which grow like wild, right?

Robert Lustig (49m 22s):
They grow like wild because they don't have Oxygen.

Andrew Huberman (49m 28s):
But they, but there's some of the, so here's what's peculiar about it. Tumor cells are some of the most vascularized cells or tumors are, are heavily vascularized. Well they're trying, I mean, I mean one way to, one way to try, try, try and kill one is to, to devascularize the tumor

Robert Lustig (49m 42s):
Cell, right? Yes. And, and you know, angiogenesis inhibition, et cetera, you know, it's a big deal, you know, due to folkman and all that from Harvard. Yeah. You know,

Andrew Huberman (49m 50s):
It's, so the excess blood to a tumor is the attempt to bring in Oxygen that it's not getting That's right. As opposed to delivering lots of Oxygen and that's why it's growing. That's

Robert Lustig (49m 58s):
Right. Okay. But fetus, what's the partial pressure in the placenta? I dunno, six to 31. So it's actually like a mile above Mount Everest. That's how much Oxygen the fetus gets. And it's that for that reason that you've got 36 doublings and then as soon as you're out, you know, then you cut the cord and you start breathing and now your partial pressure's at a hundred. That's when growth slows down.

Andrew Huberman (50m 26s):
Has there been any effort to treat tumors by oxygenating tumors? Yes. And what does that look like? It's

Robert Lustig (50m 31s):
Hyperbaric Oxygen therapy. It's a thing. Oh yeah,

Andrew Huberman (50m 34s):
Yeah, yeah. We, we will probably do an episode on hyperbaric chambers. It's the, the, the reason we haven't yet is it's pretty niche, but they're people who own these things who sit in these things. Okay. So we, we got here by way of, by way of car, by the bagel.

Robert Lustig (50m 51s):
Right?

Andrew Huberman (50m 53s):
So I just wanna orient us that you just, that 250 Calories of the, the bagel, we talked about Glucose excursions.

Robert Lustig (51m 1s):
Right? But it's that Insulin rise that's driving the adiposity and it's also driving the growth. Okay. In the absence of Oxygen. 'cause if you have Oxygen, then you don't need that much Insulin.

Andrew Huberman (51m 14s):
Okay. So

Robert Lustig (51m 17s):
Because you're gonna Burn instead of store.

Andrew Huberman (51m 19s):
Got it. In terms of the, the, the raw metabolism of Carbohydrate though that Glucose, if I eat 250 calories of Glucose, how much of that did I quote unquote actually eat? How much is, is used?

Robert Lustig (51m 36s):
How much is used?

Andrew Huberman (51m 37s):
Yeah. Let's assume that I'm, I'm at my desk working or I'm walking around a little bit. I'm not, I'm not exercising hard in the, in the subsequent hour.

Robert Lustig (51m 44s):
So used for, what is the question used

Andrew Huberman (51m 47s):
For? I'm going back to the Caloric. Is, is the Caloric a Caloric? Clearly the answer is no. Based on the processing of different types of calories. We established it for Fat, the almonds, we e established it for protein. Right. The porterhouse with butter. And now we're, we're trying to establish that for the 250 Calories of, of bagel, which is Glucose.

Robert Lustig (52m 3s):
Right? So the Glucose has to be phosphorylated. So you're gonna lose an an A TP in the process. So you're gonna go a TP goes to a DP and then that a DP will go to a MP adenosine monophosphate, which will then go to IMP and acetol monophosphate, which will then go to Uric Acid. Okay. And that Uric Acid will be then released from the cell circulate in the bloodstream and hopefully go out in the kidney in the process that Uric Acid can inhibit mitochondrial function and it can also inhibit endothelial nitric oxide synthase, which is the enzyme in your vasculature that is your endogenous blood pressure lower

Andrew Huberman (52m 45s):
Right. By expanding blood vessels and capillaries. Exactly right. This is the mechanistic foundation of the drugs that were originally used for improving prostate function, but are used to treat erectile dysfunction, which are the, the PD PD

Robert Lustig (52m 59s):
Five inhibitors

Andrew Huberman (52m 60s):
Inhibitors, which allow nitric oxide to be around longer and more of it. Right, right, right. People use it for other purposes too. Right Now no one will forget if I queue it up with that, that example. Well

Robert Lustig (53m 10s):
We, we, you know, in the neonatal intensive care unit, it closes patent ductus arteriosis, which is a big deal in, in the neonatal world.

Andrew Huberman (53m 19s):
Well, okay, I'll, I want to ask you about that. But, but so I heard two things. One is that Glucose and the insulin that goes with it increases Uric, Acid, Uric, Acid. While it has certain important functions in health. Too much of it you said can inhibit nitric oxide. Yeah.

Robert Lustig (53m 37s):
Can inhibit nitric

Andrew Huberman (53m 38s):
Oxide. So that means that the blood vessels and Aries are gonna stay more constricted. So blood pressure is gonna be higher than it would be normally. That's right. And then Uric Acid is also inhibiting mitochondrial

Robert Lustig (53m 48s):
Function. That's right.

Andrew Huberman (53m 49s):
Okay. But eating half a bagel isn't necessarily a terrible thing if it's within your Caloric requirements. It,

Robert Lustig (53m 57s):
And it, it all depends on how much you clear and how high your insulin goes.

Andrew Huberman (54m 5s):
Now let's compare that 250 calories of Glucose to 250 Calories of fructose. Right? Let's, let's come up with a food example. 250 Calories of Fructose would be trivial to consume in the form of high Fructose Corn Syrup, right? Well,

Robert Lustig (54m 20s):
So remember the high Fructose Corn Syrup is half Glucose, half Fructose.

Andrew Huberman (54m 24s):
Oh, okay. So let's not use, so be

Robert Lustig (54m 25s):
1 25. 1 25.

Andrew Huberman (54m 26s):
So let's not use that. Well, so let's assume, so we can talk about a Soda for, to get that, that 250 Calories easily, right? Especially if it's not a can or a European sized bottle. Or can eight

Robert Lustig (54m 38s):
Ounce. Eight ounce can of

Andrew Huberman (54m 40s):
Soda. Okay, so eight ounce can of Soda and maybe let's include a food item. Let's talk like a store-bought packaged cookie. A couple of Oreos, two Oreos. Okay. Probably get you to that two 50 or maybe four

Robert Lustig (54m 51s):
Oreo. Maybe three Oreos. Yeah.

Andrew Huberman (54m 53s):
Okay. Oreo lovers everywhere celebrating 3 250 Calories of Fructose. What's the effect on Uric Acid? What's the effect on Caloric Burn? What's the effect on anything for that matter that we should be aware of?

Robert Lustig (55m 9s):
Alright, so first of all, the Oreo has plenty of fructose in it. So keep that in mind. Okay? The, if let's say you consumed 250 calories in a bagel, 'cause that's pretty much polymerized Glucose versus say the Soda. So the bagel versus the Soda, that's what you're

Andrew Huberman (55m 25s):
Equivalent calories, right? Equivalent calories or the, the bagel versus let's say two Oreos and a little bit of, and yeah, two Oreos. Okay.

Robert Lustig (55m 33s):
So number one, there's only half the Glucose in the Soda because the other half is the fructose. It's 1 25. 1 25. So your Glucose rise won't be as high. Your Glucose excursion will be lower. This is actually one of the reasons why there's this thing called glycemic index. And glycemic index is aard, it's garbage. It is complete and utter bss,

Andrew Huberman (56m 0s):
The glycemic index

Robert Lustig (56m 2s):
Absolutely bss. Nothing, nothing is more egregious in terms of argument than, than than the glycemic index. And this is one of the things that dieticians promote and espouse. And one of the things that's gotta go, okay, this is, this is an idea that must die.

Andrew Huberman (56m 20s):
Okay? We'll get back to why the glycemic index has gotta die. But so, so the 250 calories, and actually can we, can we make these equal just for sake of of simplicity, can we say 250 calories of Glucose from the bagel versus 250 Calories of Fructose? How do we get 250 calories of pure fructose? We don't. You can't. Okay. You gotta bring the Glucose with lab.

Robert Lustig (56m 43s):
Lab Fructose. Okay. You'd have to make it crystal

Andrew Huberman (56m 46s):
Fr lab. Let's, with the eo, which is a half Glucose, half

Robert Lustig (56m 48s):
Fructose, right? That, I mean there is no Fructose alone in nature. Even

Andrew Huberman (56m 51s):
Crackers, some of the ones that are salty are also sweet. They have fructose in them. Yeah. Absolute high Fructose Corn

Robert Lustig (56m 56s):
Syrup on purpose.

Andrew Huberman (56m 57s):
Yeah. That's why it's impossible to eat just one

Robert Lustig (56m 60s):
Indeed.

Andrew Huberman (57m 0s):
And so what's happening biochemically as a consequence of the Fructose component specifically, right?

Robert Lustig (57m 7s):
So the Fructose will first of all go into the intestine. The intestine will metabolize some of that fructose through what is known as intestinal de novo lipogenesis. About 10% of that fructose will be turned into Fat, right. In the intestine. And

Andrew Huberman (57m 24s):
That's 'cause fructose. It just wants to be Fat.

Robert Lustig (57m 28s):
Yeah, fructose wants to be Fat. Fructose is the lipo substrate

Andrew Huberman (57m 31s):
Here. We're not talking about body fat. We're talking about fat molecules that can potentially be used as energy. That's

Robert Lustig (57m 37s):
Right. Triglyceride molecules. Okay. Okay. So, so 10% of that fructose will be turned into triglyceride right in the intestine and be released into the bloodstream. And it is the reason for a postprandial triglyceride response

Andrew Huberman (57m 49s):
Postprandial is, and I'm including myself in this group, is nerd speak for after eating lunch. That's right. Typically it's lunch Indeed.

Robert Lustig (57m 57s):
So that's actually one of the drivers of cardiovascular pathology. That intestinal de novo lipogenesis turning that Fructose into triglyceride right in the intestine. Now there's a limit to how fast and how much the intestine can do that. The rest of the fructose will be absorbed into the portal vein, but not before. Some of that fructose will make it further down and it will nitrate tight junction proteins. Okay.

Andrew Huberman (58m 28s):
Portal vein of the kidney. So portal

Robert Lustig (58m 30s):
Vein goes to the liver portal vein goes from the visceral from the intestine to the liver. Kidney,

Andrew Huberman (58m 36s):
No kidney doesn't feed the

Robert Lustig (58m 37s):
Kidney. Kidney, okay. No kidney intestine to liver. Okay. Okay. But fructose nitrates, tight junction proteins. Now lemme explain that to your audience. Your intestine is a sewer definition of a sewer, a pipe with shit it, okay, that's its sewer. Our intestines are sewers. There's junk in the center. And the job of the intestine is to move the junk through to the anus, absorbing the good stuff while you can. The intestine is made up of cells, intestinal epithelial cells that are bound together and they're bound with proteins that basically form a barrier.

Robert Lustig (59m 24s):
And those barriers are called tight junction proteins. It's

Andrew Huberman (59m 27s):
Like claudins and things like that.

Robert Lustig (59m 29s):
Zonulin is the main one. Okay. There are others, but zonulin is the one that goes, is defective in celiac disease.

Andrew Huberman (59m 35s):
What defines a tight junction? Is it that is like completely impermeable or semi-Permeable.

Robert Lustig (59m 40s):
Completely impermeable. Okay. Unless its function is inhibited, turns out, if you alter the phosphorylation status or the nitrate status of that tight junction, it will be become transiently permeable. Okay. And so fructose nitrates, tight junction proteins, causing them to be transiently permeable, allowing some of the junk in your intestine to get through into your bloodstream.

Andrew Huberman (1h 0m 13s):
So this is Leaky Gut. This

Robert Lustig (1h 0m 14s):
Is Leaky Gut. This is what Causes Leaky Gut fructose is a driver of Leaky Gut.

Andrew Huberman (1h 0m 20s):
Got it.

Robert Lustig (1h 0m 21s):
That Causes Inflammation at the level of the liver, which ultimately leads to systemic Inflammation. One of the reasons why high ity CRP sensitivity CRP is high in patients who eat Ultra Processed Food.

Andrew Huberman (1h 0m 33s):
CRP is C-reactive Protein, which is a marker of a, essentially an inflammatory immune response. Exactly. Yeah. You don't want it too high.

Robert Lustig (1h 0m 40s):
And 93% of Americans today are inflamed.

Andrew Huberman (1h 0m 44s):
Does that mean that 93% of Americans have Leaky guts?

Robert Lustig (1h 0m 48s):
Yeah, it does because that's where it comes from.

Andrew Huberman (1h 0m 51s):
So in addition to limiting fructose intake, what are things that support the tight junctions of, of the intestinal pathway?

Robert Lustig (1h 1m 3s):
So there are three barriers in your intestine to keep the junk where it belongs in the center so that it can get pooped out the your behind. Alright. Three separate barriers. One is a physical barrier called the mucin layer. So it's a layer of mucus that actually sits on top of the intestinal epithelial cells. Now that mucin is a polysaccharide and the bacteria can use that mucin layer for its own purposes, it will eat your mucin layer. If you don't feed your bacteria, you must feed your bacteria or your bacteria will feed on you. Okay. So you are in concert with your Microbiome.

Robert Lustig (1h 1m 46s):
If you deprive your Microbiome of the food that it needs, it will use you as its food. And that's one of the reasons why Fiber is so important.

Andrew Huberman (1h 1m 56s):
So Fiber, to build up this mucin layer is one way to reinforce the, the, the fence physical barrier that, that is the tight junctions, et cetera. Exactly. Between your intestine and, and the bloodstream. Exactly. This raises an interesting point about Fasting. Many people, including myself, do a sort of pseudo Intermittent Fasting. I eat my first meal somewhere between 11 and noon. I'm not strict about this, the 11 versus noon thing. and I probably eat my last bite of food somewhere around 8:00 PM and occasionally it's outside that window. I've, I've done this for a long time, it just feels best to me. Right. Other people use a shorter eating window. One thing that I learned from a colleague at Yale who studies the gut Microbiome that was surprising to me is that when you do, when you eat in that way, there's a long stretch of time, sometimes longer for people that have a shorter eating window, longer Fasting window that is,

Robert Lustig (1h 2m 44s):
Yeah.

Andrew Huberman (1h 2m 44s):
Where you're actually eating up your own intestinal lining. So this idea that Fasting is so great for us, on the one hand might be true. On the other hand, you're, you're actually consuming components of your, you're not feeding your gut Microbiome and you deplete it. But then here's where I was sur positively surprised when you do eat, provided that you eat enough fiber, and in particular, high quality Fermented Foods, low sugar Fermented Foods. It seems that the, the lining of the Gut and the Gut Microbiome is replenished to a level that is greater than if you had eaten for longer periods of the 24 hour cycle. Yeah. Do I have that right?

Robert Lustig (1h 3m 20s):
We do. You do have it. Right. and I don't know why that is true, but it does seem to be the case. And Fermented Foods ba in part because they've got already short chain fatty acids in them seem to help. Is that the

Andrew Huberman (1h 3m 33s):
Preferred food of the Microbiome?

Robert Lustig (1h 3m 34s):
Well, it's what the Microbiome actually turns Fiber into. So it's probably helping your intestinal epithelial cells in the same way the Microbiome turning Fiber into short chain fatty acids helps. So it's what we call a prebiotic. So you have prebiotic, which is the food for the bacteria. You have the probiotic, which is the bacteria itself, and then you have the post biotic, which is what the bacteria make in order to heal. You got it. Okay. And so short chain fatty acids are postbiotics and there are a lot of people selling short chain fatty acids, you know, drinks and supplements and what have you. Whether they work or not is another story.

Andrew Huberman (1h 4m 14s):
If I consume Fructose in the form of let's say a highly Processed Food has minimal antioxidants, but it's got plenty of Calories typically. Yep. And it's disrupting the tight junctions. Making my gut Leaky. Right. But I'm also eating fiber. Yeah. You know, I'm having a, you know, a meal that includes a salad I'm having having some probiotics. Right. And then I want like a couple Reese's peanut butter cups, like the dark chocolate ones in particular. I don't do this anymore, but I used to eat like that more often. As, as time has gone on, I've, I've become, I don't like to call it stricter, but more, I I I tend to like healthier foods over time. and I think you can get away with different things at different stages of life.

Andrew Huberman (1h 4m 54s):
Although you work with young people. So we'll, we'll get to very young people. So we'll get to this. But how, how much damage am I doing by ingesting any Fructose in the form of a highly Processed Food?

Robert Lustig (1h 5m 5s):
So I'll make it very simple. Andrew, I am for dessert. For dessert. I am not for dessert for breakfast, lunch, snacks, and dinner. Okay. So if you wanna have a couple of Reese's peanut butter cups as your dessert in the same way as you might have a cognac for dessert, that's fine. I have no problem with that. The question is, are you going to eat Reese's peanut butter cups for breakfast?

Andrew Huberman (1h 5m 38s):
No, I don't eat breakfast. Well, but no, I got, but I see your point.

Robert Lustig (1h 5m 41s):
The National School Breakfast Program, which 29% of school children today consume, is a bowl of Fruit loops and a glass of orange juice. Oh that is 41 grams of sugar. American Heart Association says that the upper limit for children should be 12 grams of Added Sugar per day. That's 41 grams of Added Sugar. And it's just breakfast.

Andrew Huberman (1h 6m 8s):
And that's fructose rich.

Robert Lustig (1h 6m 10s):
Totally right. Completely. Okay. So the question is, which dessert are we talking

Andrew Huberman (1h 6m 15s):
About? Okay. And right. And can we, can we adjust that morning meal to a different reality? Because I agree that there are plenty of kids eating that or a muffin that might be the equivalent Indeed. But what about the parent who's as, okay, let's come up with a healthier option that the kid still likes. Like a, I'm thinking back to my childhood, like a honey nut cheerios or something. So not fruit loops, which is kind of the extreme.

Robert Lustig (1h 6m 41s):
Take a look at the side of the package. Okay. No

Andrew Huberman (1h 6m 43s):
Difference Now. And now let's say they go with some like waffles that are made. So with a, with a pre-made mix, some milk, some butter, you know, so mom or dad is making waffles great, it sounds healthier. But then if you do the breakdown, are we still ending up at very high? Are we basically eating dessert for breakfast in that case

Robert Lustig (1h 7m 4s):
Too? Are we eating Eggo waffles? Are we ma making waffles de novo, you know, from scratch in your own kitchen,

Andrew Huberman (1h 7m 11s):
Let's say making

Robert Lustig (1h 7m 12s):
Big difference. Okay. Because the egg o waffles, you know, replete with sugar on purpose because the Food Industry knows when they add it, you buy more because it's addictive. Okay. And we actually have the demographic, the mechanistic, the imaging and also the economic data to demonstrate that sugar's addictive. And the Food Industry knows it. So have you ever heard of a phenomenon called Price? Elasticity? Okay, Price Elasticity is an economic term that is used to ask the question, if the price of a given good goes up by 1%, that should result in reduction in purchase or consumption.

Robert Lustig (1h 8m 1s):
Because price influences consumption. How much does it influence it? So if it's, if something's price elastic when the price goes up, consumption goes down. Equivalently a food that is price elastic, the most price elastic food is Eggs. So when the price of Eggs goes up, 1% consumption of Eggs goes down 0.68%. Meaning that Eggs have a Price Elasticity of 0.32. Got it. Got it. Now what's the most price? Inelastic food?

Robert Lustig (1h 8m 42s):
The top three Most price inelastic foods are fast food

Andrew Huberman (1h 8m 48s):
Cereal

Robert Lustig (1h 8m 49s):
0.81. I

Andrew Huberman (1h 8m 49s):
Like a good quiz,

Robert Lustig (1h 8m 51s):
Fast food 0.81 soft drinks at 0.79 and juice at 0.77. Meaning

Andrew Huberman (1h 8m 58s):
People will pay not whatever, but they'll, they're willing to pay more, more, more readily willing to pay more

Robert Lustig (1h 9m 4s):
Because of the sugar. Because it's addictive, because it's hedonic. So many, many years ago, Andrew, you probably remember something called Keynesian economics. And Keynesian economics was based on this concept of the rational actor. And the rational actor can determine value, which is utility over cost. And if you are a rational actor, you should be able to say, yeah, I'll buy that, but I won't buy that. Right. Okay. In 1979, Daniel Kaman and Amos Persky Nobel Prize winner Daniel Kahneman described the irrational actor.

Robert Lustig (1h 9m 48s):
Now the irrational actor cannot determine value. And the reason is because he is risk averse. So the cost is always too great. So the utility may be the same, but the cost goes up because that's why they have, you know, aversive tendencies. The irrational actor Jeffrey Sachs has described the hedonic actor who also cannot determine value because it doesn't matter what it costs, they need their fix and this is what's going on. And the Food Industry knows it. And that's why every food in the store has been spiked.

LMNT (1h 10m 28s):
I'd like to take a quick break to acknowledge our Sponsor element elements is an electrolyte drink that has everything you need and nothing you don't. That means zero sugar and the appropriate ratios of the electrolytes, sodium, magnesium, and potassium. And that correct ratio of electrolytes is extremely important because every cell in your body, but especially your nerve cells, your neurons relies on electrolytes in order to function properly. So when you're well hydrated and you have the appropriate amount of electrolytes in your system, your mental functioning and your physical functioning is improved. I drink one packet of element dissolved in about 16 to 32 ounces of water when I wake up in the morning, as well as while I exercise. And if I've sweat a lot during that exercise, I often will drink a third element packet, dissolved in about 32 ounces of water after I exercise. Element comes in a variety of different flavors, all of which I find really tasty. I like the citrus, I like the watermelon, I like the raspberry. Frankly, I can't pick just one. It also comes in chocolate and chocolate mint, which I find tastes best if they are put into water dissolved and then heated up. I tend to do that in the winter months because of course you don't just need hydration on hot days and in the summer and spring months, but also in the winter when the temperatures are cold and the environment tends to be dry. If you'd like to try element, you can go to drink element spelled LMNT dot com slash Huberman to try a free sample pack. Again, that's drink element.com/ Huberman.

Robert Lustig (1h 11m 51s):
We talked about dessert for breakfast in the form of cereals.

Andrew Huberman (1h 11m 55s):
Yep. Some of which are disguised or couched as healthier. You know, I think of like honey nut cheerio. So it seems healthier than fruit loops. It, it looks healthier. Like the, just by way of color it looks kind of weedy, you know, color. So, but let, and in terms of lunch, I mean one of the things that I love about Europe is that the breads are amazing. Yeah. The

Robert Lustig (1h 12m 15s):
Breads are terrific there

Andrew Huberman (1h 12m 16s):
And I like and I like them because they're not as sweet. Exactly. And so a sandwich from not every deli, but from a typical sandwich shopper that one makes with store-bought Bread, sliced Bread in the US has a lot of fructose it. I looked. It does, I looked this up prior to to, it does our discussion today. So in some ways dessert is being woven into foods that are, that parents and or kids everyone thinks are savory are we're actually eating sweetss. Exactly.

Robert Lustig (1h 12m 43s):
Right. But

Andrew Huberman (1h 12m 43s):
We can't, but we don't taste them as sweet at a conscious level necessarily. Right.

Robert Lustig (1h 12m 47s):
But our but our taste buds do. Right. That's exactly right. So the question is why do they do that? So question for your audience. You buy a loaf of Bread at the local bakery, how soon before it stales?

Andrew Huberman (1h 13m 2s):
Two days. Two days at best. Yeah. If it's really great Bread

Robert Lustig (1h 13m 5s):
That's right. Yeah. The, the better the Bread, the quicker it stales. You buy a loaf of Bread at the neighborhood grocery store, how soon before it stales? Wow.

Andrew Huberman (1h 13m 17s):
You've got probably a week. And then there's a, the moldy pieces at the end that you try, you know, if you're in college and you were me trying to scrape that off

Robert Lustig (1h 13m 26s):
Fucking last up to three weeks depending

Andrew Huberman (1h 13m 28s):
Right. You could throw it in the freezer. Yeah. You probably do that with the bakery Bread, but it's never the same. Never the same. It's never

Robert Lustig (1h 13m 33s):
The same. So the question is why is that? And the answer is sugar. The answer is sugar. So the grocery store Bread had sugar added to it on purpose because when you bake it, the sugar does not evaporate. It stays in the Bread and the sugar is hydroscopic, meaning it holds on to water. This is a phenomenon that the Food Industry uses called water activity. Okay. And so it will hold onto water and so it will stay spongy and it will not stale as quickly as the bakery store Bread, which did not have that sugar added to it. So even something as benign as Bread has been turned into something that ultimately leads to chronic Metabolic disease.

Andrew Huberman (1h 14m 19s):
We've pivoted somewhat from Carbohydrate divided into glu Glucose and fructose to a discussion of sugar. Could you tell us the link between sugar and fructose? So table sugar, what percentage of table sugar is fructose? What percentage of brown sugar is fructose? What percentage of the sugar that's added to food is high Fructose Corn Syrup on average. Yeah. You know, just because here what we're talking about is what you're describing as an intentional lacing of food Indeed with something that's addictive, but that's also Processed very differently at the level of the kidney, at the level of the liver. Right. And it's bad. It's a bad, it's a bad situation. Absolutely.

Andrew Huberman (1h 14m 59s):
So, so when we talk about sugar, I think we need to be as careful in describing what we really mean as when we talk about a Caloric.

Robert Lustig (1h 15m 7s):
I completely agree. So let for your audience, let's be very, very clear on definitions. Okay. Let's not use the word sugar because it has multiple definitions. Let's use sucrose. Sucrose is what you put in your coffee. It's the crystals. Alright? It's cane sugar, beet sugar, you know, the, you know the stuff that you teaspoons of, right? This was all that was available for many, many years. That is one molecule of Glucose. One molecule of fructose bound together for the chemist out there, an ogly acidic linkage.

Robert Lustig (1h 15m 54s):
Okay? The enzyme in your intestine called scra cleaves. This lyco acidic linkage. In about a nanosecond, you absorb the two molecules separately. The Glucose goes to the entire body, generates an Insulin response. The Fructose goes straight to your liver, generates Fat, that's sucrose high Fructose Corn Syrup is essentially one molecule Glucose one molecule of Fructose not bound together, no GO glyco acidic linkage. So they're free. The enzyme sase doesn't care because the blonde's already broken.

Robert Lustig (1h 16m 35s):
Ultimately they do the same thing. And that's why high Fructose Corn Syrup and sucrose are indistinguishable metabolically. What they are is they're very different economically. And the reason is because high Fructose Corn Syrup is half the price of sucrose. Because sucrose we get from importing and high Fructose Corn Syrup, we make it home. Sucrose is in bags, high Fructose Corn Syrup is in barrels. Sucrose you can sell at the store. High Fructose Corn Syrup, you sell to the, you know, Ultra, Processed Food manufacturer. You can't buy high Fructose Corn Syrup at the, you know, at the grocery store.

Robert Lustig (1h 17m 18s):
So they're very different in terms of what they're used for. High Fructose Corn Syrup is particularly egregious because it's so missable because it's already a liquid. So you've probably remember Chips ahoy cookies in the old days. Okay. They would often would seem like the sugar in the cookie had crystallized. 'cause the sugar content was so high.

Andrew Huberman (1h 17m 43s):
It's been a while since I've had one. They weren't particularly good. Yeah,

Robert Lustig (1h 17m 47s):
Well

Andrew Huberman (1h 17m 47s):
Now, but you eat two of them and then you think they're good and then you want to eat four. Yeah, that's what it's so odd. The first bite is kinda like the, and then it's bombs away. There

Robert Lustig (1h 17m 57s):
You go. Well, now it's chewy chips of ho cookies. Oh, I remember the chewy chips of hoy. The remember chewy chips. Well, that, that's high Fructose Corn Syrup Because because the two molecules are free, they don't crystallize. So you can actually up the dose

Andrew Huberman (1h 18m 16s):
Several times throughout today's discussion. You've been talking about the quote unquote Food Industry. Okay. So I'm not a conspiracy theorist. I am, but I now, But I understand, you know, that most businesses exist to make money. Yeah. Many businesses start off with good intentions and drift in order to stay, to stay competitive. Right. And many, many businesses, as we know, not all of which are entirely bad, such as the pharmaceutical industry. Right. You there are bad, there are instances of like the opioid crisis, but then there are drugs from the pharmaceutical industry that help save lives.

Andrew Huberman (1h 18m 58s):
I mean that's my, my stance. The Food Industry. I think there are good actors and there are bad actors, but we're talking about the Food Industry. Okay, well, we can talk about the exercise industry. We talk about the podcast industry. I mean, you got good actors and bad actors, Indeed. But what you've alluded to several times here, and you're more informed than I am, is a,

Robert Lustig (1h 19m 18s):
A

Andrew Huberman (1h 19m 20s):
Concerted effort to lace food with a form of sugar that makes people crave more of that food. And that is causing metabolic illness, disrupting Mitochondria and on and on.

Robert Lustig (1h 19m 32s):
Exactly.

Andrew Huberman (1h 19m 33s):
And you're the physician, not me. You've worked with patients who struggle with Obesity and for various reasons, not me. And so we could probably spend hours, if not days, talking about all the terrible things that the quote unquote, Food, Industry has done. But what do you think is the, the pure motivation, right? I don't think that they want people to be sick, but they wanna sell product and this sells more product. So then it raises two questions if why is it that more people don't know about know this information? Although many more will know after today's conversation. But, and certainly in government, it's, it's a mix regardless of what side of the aisle you're on or if you're right in between.

Andrew Huberman (1h 20m 17s):
Yeah. There, there are clearly people that care about the health of themselves and others. So I can understand how things might have gotten to this point, but what do you think are the barriers to getting people to appreciate just what a problem this is and, and getting people to change their choices in terms of what the they're eating? Are they truly addicted to the point where they are sick? They can't make good decisions? Like a, like a drug addict who's highly addicted to heroin is a sick person. They have an illness and they need treatment, but until they get that treatment, they can't make good decisions.

Robert Lustig (1h 20m 51s):
Let's take an analogy. Alcohol. 40% of Americans are teetotalers. Never touch the stuff.

Andrew Huberman (1h 20m 58s):
40% don't drink.

Robert Lustig (1h 20m 59s):
40% don't drink.

Andrew Huberman (1h 21m 0s):
Great. I'm not a big fan of alcohol. I've never seen it make anyone better at anything that really mattered. No, because it's, except drinking. It's also, and

Robert Lustig (1h 21m 7s):
That doesn't really matter. It's also completely vestigial. There's no biochemical reaction in the body that requires alcohol. Okay. For the same reason, by the way, fructose 40% are social drinkers. Yeah. You can pick up a beer, put it down. I'm in that category. 10% are binge drinkers and 10% are chronic alcoholics. Okay. Now do you deprive the 40% of social drinkers because of the 20% of binge drinkers and chronic alcoholics?

Andrew Huberman (1h 21m 41s):
No. I believe people should be in choice, but I believe people should know what they are doing so that they can be in choice. Well, right. Like do as you, I always say, and I said this about the alcohol episode, which turned out to be one of our most prolific episodes where I said that, you know, more than two drinks, zero is better than any and more than two drinks per week. You, you need to do other things to offset that. And it's problematic. That's what those are, what the data say. But I, but I would say do as you want, but know what you're doing.

Robert Lustig (1h 22m 6s):
Well, so I would say that that's exactly what the Food Industry wants you to think. That's, that is the food industry's mantra is you have your own choice. Personal Responsibility. So the question is, does Personal Responsibility work? And the answer is no, it doesn't. Every Public Health debacle in the history of mankind started out as a personal health issue before, before it became a Public Health crisis. And you can pick your, you know, Personal Responsibility issue, whether it be exposures, whether it be addictions, whether it be infections.

Robert Lustig (1h 22m 48s):
Bottom line is ultimately it required a societal response. Okay. We can talk about syphilis, we can talk about tuberculosis ultimately needed a Public Health response. We can talk about teen pregnancy, we can talk about Tobacco. Tobacco ultimately needs a Public Health response because the sheer enormity of it and the, the egregiousness of it requires that Public Health response. Well, turns out this is no different. In order to exercise Personal Responsibility for criteria have to be met. Those four criteria are the following.

Robert Lustig (1h 23m 28s):
Number one knowledge. You have to have the knowledge because if you don't have the knowledge, then how can you exercise Personal Responsibility? Well, In fact, the public's being kept from the knowledge. We're doing this now in part to, in, you know, to entrain that knowledge to, to get people to understand what the problem is. Yeah.

Andrew Huberman (1h 23m 48s):
I mean, I consider myself pretty informed about nutrition and health. But already today I've learned two dozen facts about processing of Fructose and Caloric Calories generally that I had no knowledge of prior.

Robert Lustig (1h 24m 2s):
Well that's good. Okay. 'cause it's not about the math, it's about the science. Okay. They want it to be about calories. So we have this thing called food science. We have this thing called nutrition. And we have this thing called Metabolic Health. They are not the same. Food science is what happens to food between the ground and the mouth. Nutrition is what happens to food between the mouth and the cell. Metabolic Health is what happens to food inside the cell. But all of the chronic diseases that we are suffering from, type two Diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, cardiovascular disease, cancer, dementia, fatty liver disease, polycystic ovarian disease, those eight diseases which make up 75% of healthcare expenditures in this country today are all inside the cell because they are all mitochondrial dysfunction.

Robert Lustig (1h 24m 52s):
And there is no medicine that gets to the Mitochondria.

Andrew Huberman (1h 24m 57s):
Although you and others at Stanford, Harvard, et cetera, are starting this with metabolic psychiatry being one instance. Right. Indeed and UCSF as well. Absolutely. Forgive me. Absolutely. I should mention UCSF upfront. You're, you're home institution, a wonderful institution right up the road from Stanford. So, you know, things are changing. People are starting to think about mitochondrial health. They are. Okay. So you, you list off the first, the first thing, and you said there are four things that stand is bare, right? First one was knowledge. Knowledge. Okay.

Robert Lustig (1h 25m 21s):
Second access. 'cause if you don't have access, then how can you exercise Personal Responsibility

Andrew Huberman (1h 25m 27s):
Access to healthier alternatives. Exactly.

Robert Lustig (1h 25m 30s):
Which

Andrew Huberman (1h 25m 30s):
Means cost effective. I mean, I love berries from the farmer's market more than I love berries from the store. I love the farmer's markets generally, but it takes time, energy to go there. And the cost is actually lower at the level of what you hand the vendor typically. Right. But volume is tough to achieve. Right? They actually have me at a, at a quota. I'm not allowed to buy as many berries as I want because obviously there are other people who want berries. Okay. Yep. So there's that, right? People have to feed their family that, you know, and well, they want, we're used to eating a lot of volume,

Robert Lustig (1h 26m 2s):
But you're able to at least go there

Andrew Huberman (1h 26m 4s):
Sometimes. Okay.

Robert Lustig (1h 26m 5s):
Yeah. We're talking about people who live in quote food deserts. We're also talking about people who live in food swamps. Okay. And when we're talking about food swamps, we're not talking about a plethora of healthy foods. We're talking about all the junk. That's what they, they live in the swamp of junk. So if you live in the swamp of junk, how are you supposed to exercise? Personal Responsibility Number three, affordability. So you have to be able to afford your choice. And society has to be able to afford your choice. And right now we can't afford that choice because healthcare costs right now are at $4.1 trillion a year.

Andrew Huberman (1h 26m 48s):
But like so many things in behavioral economics and health, it's so hard for people to see that, that the immediate choice is leading to a higher cost down the road. There are just too many nodes of separation for people to realize, Hey, when I'm reaching for this cereal as opposed to making waffles for my kids from scratch, or, you know, they're thinking time efficiency, cost efficiency, volume. The, the kid's not throwing tantrums 'cause they're not no longer getting the cereal. And it's very difficult to see this is the reason why healthcare costs are going up. There're just too many nodes of separation. Well,

Robert Lustig (1h 27m 22s):
Couldn't agree more. But the, ultimately it's because the government separates and silos, Food Industry profits from healthcare costs. If you actually combine those, 'cause they ultimately are the same, you would see the problem. So globally, the Food Industry grosses $9 trillion a year. Healthcare costs globally cost $11 trillion a year. Dietary related healthcare costs, environmental costs cost $7 trillion a year. And productivity costs cost $1 trillion a year.

Robert Lustig (1h 28m 2s):
So when you do the math, nine minus 11 minus seven minus one means that there is a $10 trillion a year deficit because of us cleaning up the mess that the Food Industry makes.

Andrew Huberman (1h 28m 17s):
And while numbers like that, that's

Robert Lustig (1h 28m 18s):
Not affordable.

Andrew Huberman (1h 28m 19s):
Right. I agree. And while numbers like that land really hard, I find that for myself and for many people, statistics like that are hard to keep in mind. In a way, there's something about the human brain that hears that and goes, whoa. Or like that war costs that much and this food issue costs that much. Yep. And then we go to the store and we're hungry. Right. And the kids are, are, are are hungry and, and you're, and so those nodes of separation, it's, it's almost like a Neural slash memory slash prefrontal cortex issue to me. And of course I look at everything through the lens of neurobiology. Me too. You know, not everything, but most everything. And so how, how could I not, how could we not? But then it, like, the issue is, well there's still food on the shelves and, you know, and so it's very, how what do we do to connect, to bring closer together these node?

Andrew Huberman (1h 29m 7s):
So the question is, what would the government do?

Robert Lustig (1h 29m 8s):
So the question is, is there food on the shelves? Let me finish the fourth one and then I wanna come back to that point. Let me just, you know, finish a concept. So affordability and number four, externalities, your choice can't hurt anybody else. But what if your choice does hurt somebody else? So like for Tobacco secondhand smoke, right? For alcohol, drunk driving.

Andrew Huberman (1h 29m 33s):
What was the argument for teen pregnancy that someone else was gonna have to raise the kids.

Robert Lustig (1h 29m 36s):
Exactly. Alright, but what about for food? Okay, well, how about the fact that your employer, Stanford University has to pay $2,750 per year in obesity related healthcare expenses that they have passed on to you, even though you're not obese, that is affecting you. So that guy's, obesity right there, that is affecting you.

Andrew Huberman (1h 30m 4s):
But there, nowadays it's especially tricky even to have the conversation. I'm willing to have it now. Yeah. Which is that, you know, let's have it know that there's this whole concept of fat shaming, right? So if somebody's obese, whose fault is it? And if we even talk about it is, are we subject to attack legitimate attack? You know, so like, so calling something o someone obese at a clinical level, like, I mean, you're, you're an expert in

Robert Lustig (1h 30m 32s):
Don't talk, talk about don't talk about obesity. Let's talk about Diabetes.

Andrew Huberman (1h 30m 37s):
Okay. So talk about the consequence of obesity. Yeah.

Robert Lustig (1h 30m 39s):
Let's talk about the Metabolic Health issue itself. Okay? The fact is that Diabetes is now 11.4% of America.

Andrew Huberman (1h 30m 50s):
What was it 20 years ago?

Robert Lustig (1h 30m 52s):
It was 20 years ago it was about 8%.

Andrew Huberman (1h 30m 55s):
I was wondering this earlier, 20 years ago, there was a lot more margarine in refrigerators, but people were thinner and there was less Diabetes. Yeah. Everything you told us about margarine and Trans Fats is that it's bad, bad, bad. Now butter is back as time magazine and you said, right. So clearly can't be the transition away from Trans Fats. That's increased obesity. Well,

Robert Lustig (1h 31m 15s):
No, no.

Andrew Huberman (1h 31m 16s):
So it's gonna be the increase in sugar and

Robert Lustig (1h 31m 18s):
It's the increase in sugar

Andrew Huberman (1h 31m 19s):
And and these Hidden, Sugars and I. Exactly.

Robert Lustig (1h 31m 21s):
That's right's. Right? Alright. The the, the, the key though is Pakistan and India because, and China, they are not fat, but they have 14% Diabetes rates and they're thin. And the reason is because of Ultra, Processed, Food.

Andrew Huberman (1h 31m 38s):
Are there any countries in the world that don't allow high Fructose Corn Syrup Or at least not at the level that that we do? Oh, they're

Robert Lustig (1h 31m 48s):
Frequent loads. Okay. They're are boatloads of countries that don't import high Fructose Corn Syrup or don't make

Andrew Huberman (1h 31m 54s):
It. So Scandinavian countries.

Robert Lustig (1h 31m 56s):
Scandinavian countries, most of Europe. The other than the Asia Pacific rim. So Japan has it In fact, it was invented in Japan 1966 saga medical school, takasaki at all. Korea has it, but Australia does not have it. Thailand does not have it. But they have just as much of an obesity and Diabetes problem as we do because they have sucrose. Because high Fructose, Corn, Syrup and sucrose are no different metabolically. So it doesn't really matter.

Andrew Huberman (1h 32m 28s):
It's that one-to-one.

Robert Lustig (1h 32m 30s):
It's the one-to-one thing Exactly.

Andrew Huberman (1h 32m 31s):
Of Glucose and

Robert Lustig (1h 32m 32s):
Fructose. So here's the question, Andrew. Okay, I, so I want to go back to that. You said all this food is still on the shelves. Is it food? What is the definition of food?

Andrew Huberman (1h 32m 46s):
Can I give the definition? I think most people would give, that's not necessarily the one I would, I would give go ahead. But something that has contains Caloric energy or like, I, I could eat this microphone, but it's not gonna provide much useful energy.

Robert Lustig (1h 33m 0s):
The definition of food straight from the dictionary. And believe me, I looked it up and memorized it and I believe you substrate that contributes to either growth or burning of an organism.

Andrew Huberman (1h 33m 13s):
Interesting.

Robert Lustig (1h 33m 14s):
That is the definition of food.

Andrew Huberman (1h 33m 15s):
I'm pretty scientific for

Robert Lustig (1h 33m 17s):
100% correct. Growth or burning. So any substrate that passes your lips, that contributes to either growth or burning, that's food. Okay, let's do it. Let's do burning first. I just showed you that sugar, which is the marker of Ultra Processed Food. And 73% of the items in the grocery store are spiked with sugar inhibits burning. It inhibits those three enzymes involved in mitochondrial function. Now let's do growth. My colleague Dr. Fra Mons Nigo or Ornan, who is the chairman of nutrition at Hebrew University. Jerusalem actually looked at this question and showed that Ultra Processed Food actually inhibits growth.

Robert Lustig (1h 34m 1s):
It inhibits cortical bone growth. It inhibits trabecular bone growth. It inhibits cancellous bone growth. It inhibits linear bone growth. It hijacks growth for cancer because it inhibits Mitochondria. And so you have to then grow instead of Burn.

Andrew Huberman (1h 34m 20s):
And this was work that was done in in vivo or in vitro? In vivo. In vivo. So these are people that are eating high amounts of highly Processed Food. Exactly. How did you find those? In, in the, in the Middle East?

Robert Lustig (1h 34m 31s):
They, they found in Israel, they found them. So the bottom line is if a substrate does not contribute to growth and does not contribute to burning, is it a food?

Andrew Huberman (1h 34m 44s):
I see the answer is no.

Robert Lustig (1h 34m 46s):
Well that's 73% of what's in the grocery store. So I would argue you said the food's there. No, it's not. That's not food. In fact, it's consumable poison.

Andrew Huberman (1h 34m 57s):
So this leads to an important question of what's left, right? You remove all that, what's left? Okay. Just anecdotally and I, what I sometimes call AEC data, you know, I've had several friends in their forties and early fifties say they wanted to lose weight and get in shape. And the, the thing that's worked every, every single time for them to lose significant amounts of weight quickly and keep it off. And many of them were already exercising, but then also increase their exercise was, I just, since I'm not a dietician nutritionist or anything, I just say eat Meat, fish, Eggs vegetables, fruits.

Andrew Huberman (1h 35m 37s):
You're not going to eat starches, you're not gonna drink alcohol, you're not going to drink Soda. You can still have coffee tea, you can still have Artificial Sweeteners. I will go get to Artificial Sweeteners in a little

Robert Lustig (1h 35m 47s):
Bit. Yeah. We, we have to go

Andrew Huberman (1h 35m 48s):
There, but have to, and the reason I say no starches, even though I personally eat Rice oatmeal, pasta, things of that sort, some in, in moderation depending on, on what sort of exercise and I'm doing and how much is because of the fact that nowadays many of those things contain fructose. And inevitably every one of those people is blown away by the fact that it quote unquote works and assumes that it's all because of reduced Caloric intake overall. Yep. And they lose like anywhere from 30 to 55 pounds. Exactly. And keep it off. And they're like, Hey, this is great. I can actually still eat ribeye steaks and salads and I, but they're not eating croutons.

Andrew Huberman (1h 36m 28s):
They're, and so in some sense it looks extreme. It sounds ketogenic, but it's nothing like that. You're just saying basically stay away from, you're eliminating Processed, Foods, you're eliminating liquid calories in, in general you and on and on. And so there's nothing sophisticated about it. and I, my question to you is how much of that weight loss effect do you think is a calories in versus calories out effect? 'cause they're eating a lot of food and in some cases, and how much of it do you think is the elimination or near elimination of this Fructose or this Glucose fructose combination?

Robert Lustig (1h 37m 5s):
It's nothing to do with the calories. It has everything to do with the insulin. If you get the Insulin down, you're not shunting energy to Fat. You can lose weight. Your fat will give up the a, the, the, the triglyceride stored in it. As soon as your Insulin goes down, Insulin is pushing on your Fat cell all the time. And as long as your insulin's up, your Fat cell can't release it, the minute your Insulin goes down, you can now engage in what we call lipolysis hormone sensitive lipase is a, an enzyme in the fat cell that is inhibited by insulin.

Robert Lustig (1h 37m 49s):
As soon as the insulin's gone, hormone sensitive lipase can turn that stored triglyceride into free fatty acids an glycerol and release it and you can lose weight. So get the Insulin down and it all works. So the question is, what makes insulin go up? Well, two things. Refined Carbohydrate and sugar, those are the two things that make insulin go up. In addition, branch chain amino acids make insulin go up as well. Lucy and IUC valine, which is in Corn fed beef, chicken and fish, Processed Food. Alright, here's, here's here's the deal. In one concept, my colleague Dr. Carlos Montero, who is a professor of Public Health at the University of Sao Paulo, has done the world a great service.

Robert Lustig (1h 38m 35s):
He has developed a system for categorization of food processing. It's called the NOVA system just means new. But he has basically categorized every food anywhere in the world into one of four classes. Easiest way to explain this would be an example. Let's take an Apple NOVA class. One would be an apple picked off a tree NOVA class two would be apple slices, destem, deeded, deskinned, maybe NOVA. Class three would be apple sauce, cooked macerated, possibly a preservative added, maybe some extra sugar, maybe not NOVA.

Robert Lustig (1h 39m 20s):
Class four would be a McDonald's apple pie. Now does that McDonald's apple pie look, anything like that? Apple?

Andrew Huberman (1h 39m 29s):
No.

Robert Lustig (1h 39m 30s):
Is there even any apple in it?

Andrew Huberman (1h 39m 31s):
Maybe a

Robert Lustig (1h 39m 32s):
Tiny bit, maybe not. Maybe

Andrew Huberman (1h 39m 33s):
A tiny bit,

Robert Lustig (1h 39m 33s):
You know, it's, it's all flavor enhanced, et cetera. Okay. It turns out, and this is epidemiologic data, but nonetheless prospective epidemiologic data. So it's not useless that NOVA class four, that Ultra Processed Food category, which is 73% of the American grocery store is the class that is associated with all of these chronic metabolic diseases. NOVA class one through three. No problem.

Andrew Huberman (1h 40m 3s):
Now when you say associated, what percentage of one's daily total Caloric intake needs to come from NOVA class four before that statement you just made is true because it, I love the recommendation you made earlier, or the, let's just say the, the, the contour of a, you don't have to avoid dessert, you can enjoy dessert. Right. But don't eat dessert at, at other times of day. Right. And maybe you don't eat dessert every single night. Right. I Is there a rule that people would have to eat dessert every single night?

Robert Lustig (1h 40m 31s):
So the answer is about seven to 10% would be the upper limit.

Andrew Huberman (1h 40m 37s):
So you can get seven to 10% of your Caloric intake, daily Caloric intake from these Novo Class IV foods and still, and still be okay. And still be okay. Yeah. So this is, I I know,

Robert Lustig (1h 40m 47s):
But that's not what's happening.

Andrew Huberman (1h 40m 49s):
Right? I know some very healthy physicians who I used to observe how people a moved, 'cause I, I would pay attention in my, in our field, right? I, I was like, oh, you know, people all around me at Stanford, UCSF, et cetera, were successful or else they wouldn't be there. Right? I was like, you know, who looks healthy? Who can make it up the stairs and doesn't have to take the elevator? How much exercise are people doing at a given age? Are they fanatic? You know, like four in the morning runners. I'm not gonna do that consistently unless I have to. and I and I observed that, you know, many of the healthiest people I know, they move a lot during the day. They hate very well, many of them skip breakfast or lunch. Not always. And then I also notice that they would drink very little or no alcohol and then, but they would enjoy like a, there's one physician at UCSF in particular I'm thinking of who really enjoyed his dark chocolate Kit Kat after lunch.

Andrew Huberman (1h 41m 39s):
And he's sort of very ceremonial about the unraveling of that, the foil and the end of the, and it was like, okay, so you're talking about that small percentage of calories.

Robert Lustig (1h 41m 48s):
If that, if that's, if that's all you do, hey, you know, God bless you. But that's not what people are doing. That's the problem. Bottom line, that NOVA class four is where all the action is in terms of chronic metabolic disease. So the question is, how can you avoid that? How do you know which is which? We have a solution. So my colleagues and I have developed a web-based tool that is available to the entire world right now. And you'll put it in your show notes? Yeah.

Andrew Huberman (1h 42m 21s):
We'll put a link to this.

Robert Lustig (1h 42m 22s):
Absolutely. It's called Perfect P-E-R-F-A-C-T. And you can find it@perfect.co. And what it is, is it's a recommendation engine, not ai. And we're gonna talk about AI in a minute, but it is a recommendation engine based on the science of human metabolism that categorizes foods based on, not their nutrient content, but on their metabolic effect. Interesting. And so there is a NOVA filter which will filter out all the NOVA class four stuff, and it will go to your grocery store and will tell you what you can buy.

Robert Lustig (1h 43m 6s):
That will be in NOVA class one through three. Ooh. Which turns out to only be 20% of the grocery store.

Andrew Huberman (1h 43m 13s):
It means basically staying on the periphery of the grocery store. Right. That's that's a

Robert Lustig (1h 43m 16s):
Lot in general. In general. Yeah. Yes.

Andrew Huberman (1h 43m 18s):
The produce, the Meat, the dairy, the

Robert Lustig (1h 43m 20s):
All the things you mentioned. Yeah, In fact. So I'm not low carb, I'm low insulin. And there are a lot of ways to get to low Insulin. Get rid of the refined Carbohydrate, get rid of the sugar, increase the fiber, get rid of the bri chain amino acids. Okay. So eating fish is a good place to be. Even eating a steak is okay if it's a pasture fed steak. So let's talk about your steak. Right.

Andrew Huberman (1h 43m 48s):
Which is also better for the animals, right?

Robert Lustig (1h 43m 50s):
It is. Absolutely. So you mentioned marbling, Before, we love our marbling. Right? We can cut our US grade a steaks with a butter knife because they're so tender. Right? You ever been to Argentina?

Andrew Huberman (1h 44m 4s):
Yeah, my father's Argentina. Oh right,

Robert Lustig (1h 44m 5s):
That's right. You're Argentinian.

Andrew Huberman (1h 44m 6s):
Yeah. They only know, of course they only know grassroots steak. Duh. The only, the idea that that cows would eat anything but grass is sort of like the idea that Menza valley, that fish would, would, would fly.

Robert Lustig (1h 44m 16s):
Absolutely. New Zealand, same thing. Yeah. Okay. The Meat is gorgeous. It's homogeneous, it's pink, it's delightful. I've been to Argentina. The Meat is fantastic. But you have to use a steak knife. You can't use a butter knife.

Andrew Huberman (1h 44m 30s):
And it takes more chewing.

Robert Lustig (1h 44m 31s):
It takes and it takes more

Andrew Huberman (1h 44m 32s):
Chewing

Robert Lustig (1h 44m 32s):
Because there's sinew. You know, it's a, it's a different experience entirely. It's delicious. But it is kind of a little bit, you know, tougher. Alright. Turns out that marbling is intracellular lipid. That animal has metabolic syndrome.

Andrew Huberman (1h 44m 50s):
The American Corn fed

Robert Lustig (1h 44m 52s):
The American Corn fed animal because that Corn is filled with branch chain amino acids. Leucine, isoleucine, valine, branch chain amino acids are what's in protein powder. That's what you know, bodybuilders, you know, put in their smoothies, you know, to build Muscle. And if you're building Muscle, that's okay because 20% of the amino acids in Muscle are branch chain. So, so you know, if you've got a place to put them, you know, have at it.

Andrew Huberman (1h 45m 19s):
Yeah, there's a need there 'cause they're breaking down Muscle. Yeah fine.

Robert Lustig (1h 45m 21s):
But if you're not, if you're, you know, again, a mere mortal like me, you consume those excess branch chain amino acids, they're gonna go to the liver. They're gonna be deamidated like we talked about earlier. And they're gonna end up as branch chain organic acids. They're gonna flood the Mitochondria. The Mitochondria are not gonna be able to deal with the volume. And so they're gonna divert the excess and turn that into fat. And so now you've got hypertriglyceridemia and chance for fatty liver disease and Insulin Resistance. So what kind of Meat you eat has a lot to do with your Metabolic Health.

Andrew Huberman (1h 46m 0s):
What about the egg? The whole egg near, near perfect protein score in terms of its bioavailability.

Robert Lustig (1h 46m 9s):
Eggs are terrific. Okay, great. There's nothing wrong with Eggs now there are better Eggs than others. So there are pasture, so, well there's yellow yolk Eggs and there are orange yolk Eggs. What's the difference between a yellow oak egg and an orange oak

Andrew Huberman (1h 46m 23s):
Egg? I'm guessing that's something about the, the feed of the, the mother chicken and I'm guessing it probably also has something to do with choline content.

Robert Lustig (1h 46m 36s):
Omega threes.

Andrew Huberman (1h 46m 37s):
Ah, interesting.

Robert Lustig (1h 46m 38s):
Okay. The orange yolk egg has a lot of Omega threes in it.

Andrew Huberman (1h 46m 44s):
What are other great Sources of Omega threes? I, I've, I know some off the top of my head, but I'd like to hear it from you.

Robert Lustig (1h 46m 48s):
Okay, so marine life is number one. Okay. You know, fish

Andrew Huberman (1h 46m 53s):
Provided you're not bringing in heavy metals with

Robert Lustig (1h 46m 55s):
It per well. Yes. So I mean that's always the, the, the argument, you know, the question is, you know, is it the mercury or is it the Omega threes? Ultimately I think it's the Omega threes that is more important. But yes, I do understand the mercury issue. Ultimately there are three Omega threes. There's a LA alpha linolenic Acid, which you can get in vegetables. There is EPA ICOs, Penta noic Acid, which you can only get in marine life.

Andrew Huberman (1h 47m 27s):
Fish oil caught liver oil,

Robert Lustig (1h 47m 29s):
Right. And finally, DHA doco, hexa ioic Acid Acid. Which you also get from marine life. But you can get from algae. So you can get lgal oil, which you know the vegans will use. Do

Andrew Huberman (1h 47m 43s):
You personally take anything to increase your Omega three intake? Yeah, I, I know take, there's even prescription Omega threes. I take fish oil. You take a fish oil? Yeah. Yeah. The, the

Robert Lustig (1h 47m 53s):
Thresholds. I only take three. I only take three supplements.

Andrew Huberman (1h 47m 55s):
Okay. I'd like to know what those are. I will say that I always, always, always say behaviors first. Right. Do's and don'ts. Yep. Behaviors, nutrition, then only if needed and one can afford it. Then supplementation and prescription drugs. And I'm a big consumer of supplements and always have been frankly. Okay. So what are the three, so you take

Robert Lustig (1h 48m 12s):
Fish oil.

Andrew Huberman (1h 48m 13s):
Fish oil. And do you take to get above a certain threshold of EPA?

Robert Lustig (1h 48m 16s):
Yeah, about a thousand milligrams.

Andrew Huberman (1h 48m 18s):
Oh, say about a gram a day. Agram day.

Robert Lustig (1h 48m 19s):
Okay. Vitamin C.

Andrew Huberman (1h 48m 22s):
How much Vitamin C do you think? A

Robert Lustig (1h 48m 23s):
Thousand milligrams a

Andrew Huberman (1h 48m 24s):
Day. You and Linus Pauling? Yeah.

Robert Lustig (1h 48m 25s):
Well it's actually for my rosacea. I've got skin issue

Andrew Huberman (1h 48m 31s):
And Vitamin C helps with, helps with

Robert Lustig (1h 48m 32s):
That. Interesting. And finally, Vitamin D. Now I'll tell you Vitamin D is a complicated one. Alright. Let and I, we can talk about Vitamin D and how either important or non important it is because there's a, there's a quirk to Vitamin D and it, it's important for your audience to know about it. 'cause everybody and his brothers, you know, touting Vitamin D, well it's funny, secure for everything.

Andrew Huberman (1h 48m 58s):
It's sort of funny because that you have your supplement lovers, haters and agnostics. But Vitamin D somehow made it through the shoot. Like everyone's like provitamin d It's really interesting. Yeah. Somehow Vitamin D people are comfortable taking a gel Vitamin D gel cap. But like other supplements where you say, oh like maybe this might be good for, you know, like Omega threes and fish oil, then people are a little bit like more standoffish. It's really interesting that the kind of psychosocial stuff around this. Yeah. How much Vitamin D do do you personally take?

Robert Lustig (1h 49m 27s):
I take 5,000 units a

Andrew Huberman (1h 49m 29s):
Day. Okay. So do I Vitamin

Robert Lustig (1h 49m 30s):
D iss complicated though. Here's the problem. If you look at the literature, Vitamin D deficiency is associated with all these chronic metabolic diseases. However, supplementation with Vitamin D has not fixed any of those. Hmm. So if you are Vitamin D deficient, why wouldn't supplementation fix it? Couple of reasons. One, one of the reasons for Vitamin D deficiency is 'cause everyone's drinking soft drinks. That's one reason. But there's a more important reason

Andrew Huberman (1h 50m 5s):
Sugar and artificially sweetened soft drinks. Yeah. Can deplete Vitamin D utilize?

Robert Lustig (1h 50m 11s):
Well you're not consuming dairy 'cause you're consuming soft drinks.

Andrew Huberman (1h 50m 14s):
But I can't tolerate milk anymore.

Robert Lustig (1h 50m 16s):
Well then you take Vitamin D. But here's the, here's the real nugget of truth. And this is a little complicated, but the endocrinologist and the audience will, will get it. Vitamin D is a pre-pro hormone. It's not, it's not active at all. Vitamin D is converted in the liver first step to a compound called 25 hydroxy Vitamin D. That is a pro hormone. It also is inactive. It has no activity whatsoever from there. 25 hydroxy Vitamin D can be metabolized one of two ways.

Robert Lustig (1h 50m 57s):
It can either be one alpha hydroxylated in the kidney to the active form one alpha. It was 1 25 Dihydroxy Vitamin D, which will then do all of the business of Vitamin D

Andrew Huberman (1h 51m 10s):
Such as

Robert Lustig (1h 51m 11s):
Calcium absorption from the Gut suppression of the immune system at the toll-like receptor four.

Andrew Huberman (1h 51m 18s):
That sounds like a bad thing.

Robert Lustig (1h 51m 19s):
No, that's a good thing.

Andrew Huberman (1h 51m 20s):
I know, but I had to bring that up. Okay. Because when you say suppression of the immune system, people go, I'm immunosuppressed nobody That sounds like AIDS

Robert Lustig (1h 51m 26s):
A good, it suppresses Inflammation. Got it. It's a good thing. Okay. Suppression of Inflammation. And that's actually the point that we're, we're getting to. So there are a lot of good things about 1 25 di hydroxy Vitamin D. However, that 25 hydroxy d that came out of the liver can be metabolized a different way. It can be 24 hydroxylated in inflammatory tissue like tuberculosis, sarcoid, gut Inflammation. And so you will end up taking your 25 hydroxy D, which is a pro hormone and turning it into the inactive 24, 25 di hydroxy D which then just gets excreted out.

Robert Lustig (1h 52m 14s):
So in other words, you consumed all this Vitamin D and it didn't go where you needed it to go. And the reason was because you're inflamed, you have to fix the Inflammation before the Vitamin D can be effective and 93% of Americans are inflamed. So giving them Vitamin D is not gonna do a damn thing.

Andrew Huberman (1h 52m 37s):
Got it. Is reducing fructose intake the one of the primary ways to reduce systemic Inflammation?

Robert Lustig (1h 52m 43s):
Absolutely.

Andrew Huberman (1h 52m 44s):
What are some others

Robert Lustig (1h 52m 45s):
Reducing oxidative stress in general. So heavy metals like cadmium, you know, cadmium's very high in chocolate. Especially South American chocolate. Sorry.

Andrew Huberman (1h 52m 54s):
No, I, I'm not a fan of chocolate. I occasionally like a little dark chocolate, but Okay. But so if people are going to chocolate, they should be careful how much chocolate they

Robert Lustig (1h 53m 3s):
Eat. Well, general, especially if it's South American chocolate and, and Processed chocolate. I mean the really good stuff

Andrew Huberman (1h 53m 9s):
We're gonna be on the hit list of so many industries after this episode comes out. Yeah. That's

Robert Lustig (1h 53m 13s):
All I can tell you is I've been on the hit list for a decade and I'm still

Andrew Huberman (1h 53m 16s):
There. You're you're just one big target. Yeah. Right. Got

Robert Lustig (1h 53m 18s):
It. I gotta, I it's on my back, you know, kicked everywhere. I already got that. There are the, the main thing is to make that gut work, right? So fiber, short chain fatty Acid production from Fiber is a huge, you know, boon and to, to Reduce Inflammation to Reduce Inflammation. How

Andrew Huberman (1h 53m 42s):
About improving sleep? Is there any evidence that, you know, chronic slight sleep deprivation can increase Inflammation?

Robert Lustig (1h 53m 49s):
Well what it will do is it'll increase Cortisol and chronically increased Cortisol will definitely lead to increased Inflammation. You know, which is funny 'cause Cortisol is usually considered the anti-inflammatory. Right. But only acutely. Right. Chronic Cortisol elevation does the opposite. Yeah. If,

Andrew Huberman (1h 54m 4s):
If we can contribute to, I have this secret agenda, which is not, which is not a secret, which is that people think Cortisol is bad when In fact, acutely Cortisol does wonderful things provided it's happening at the right time of day. Right. Late shifted Cortisol bad. Right. Too much or too frequent. Cortisol bad. But Cortisol, you, you need it. It's so essential. Well, and I think most people just hear Cortisol and it's been associated with all things bad. And, and maybe we can help shift that narrative.

Robert Lustig (1h 54m 32s):
Yeah, I'm, I'm very happy. I mean, as an endocrinologist, you know, this is, you know, we're, this is my wheelhouse is where I live. Cortisol is a good news, bad news deal, like so many things. Short-term gain for long-term pain. Okay? So when you are in what we call allostasis, that is perturbation of homeostasis, that is a stress, an acute stress. Cortisol is one of the things that helps you manage that bodily and mental stress. So an English test, a car accident running away from the lion, you know, famous, you know, pygmy running away from the lion.

Robert Lustig (1h 55m 17s):
All of those require Cortisol in order to manage and mitigate that stress.

Andrew Huberman (1h 55m 23s):
The upcoming 2024 election.

Robert Lustig (1h 55m 26s):
That's chronic stress. That is not acute stress. I didn't mean to That's the worst that

Andrew Huberman (1h 55m 31s):
That'll be the only mention of politics on this

Robert Lustig (1h 55m 34s):
Podcast. Yeah. And we don't have to go there, but we're all chronically stressed and we can talk about why that is and what's going on. And I'm actually very interested in that. And a colleague of mine in Paris and I have built a computational model of the limbic system, which focuses on the stress center of the brain, the amygdala, to understand how chronic stress is different from acute stress and how that chronic stress ultimately leads to metabolic and mental health disaster.

Andrew Huberman (1h 56m 8s):
Very interested in learning more about that. Before, we touch on that. You've worked a lot with kids. People age, as you put it, zero to 19. I don't know about the exact numbers, but when I was growing up, there were some kids in school that were overweight, but it was the occasional kid. Right now it seems, depending on where one draws the threshold for overweight, it seems that there are a lot of kids that are overweight.

Robert Lustig (1h 56m 36s):
How about 25% obese and 40% overweight.

Andrew Huberman (1h 56m 42s):
Okay, so obviously a serious problem. Serious problem now and going forward. Indeed, what about adults in the us? I remember seeing at a meeting a map of obesity in the US and over time and it very quickly filled in from very few people were obese to very many Colorado. Was this, was this like, like beacon of, of, of fit people, but now it's no longer. No,

Robert Lustig (1h 57m 5s):
And that's bullshit

Andrew Huberman (1h 57m 5s):
Too. Oh, okay. Cool.

Robert Lustig (1h 57m 7s):
I'll tell you why. There, there are four things that could increase mitochondrial biogenesis.

Andrew Huberman (1h 57m 13s):
Are you gonna tell me altitude is one cold. Yeah,

Robert Lustig (1h 57m 15s):
Cold. That's why Colorado is less obese altitude. That's why Colorado is less obese. And what were the other two? I forget. But, and those were the reason it had nothing to do with being more fit. It had to do with cold and altitude example Switzerland compared to Germany, they got the same crappy food. But Switzerland has half the obesity that Germany does. I love 'cause Switzerland is higher.

Andrew Huberman (1h 57m 39s):
Oh, I love the food when I go to Munich. I love the Schnitzels and yeah, it's wonderful. The sauerkrauts and the,

Robert Lustig (1h 57m 45s):
Yeah, they got that in SW Switzerland too.

Andrew Huberman (1h 57m 47s):
Okay. So they have great food.

Robert Lustig (1h 57m 48s):
Switzerland's less obese. Right? Same way. Colorado's less obese. It's because of the altitude

Andrew Huberman (1h 57m 54s):
You, you mentioned cold. Many listeners of this podcast are at least interested in some also practice deliberate cold exposure, cold showers, cold plunges. Mainly for the, I think the best data are the increases in catecholamines, epinephrine, norepinephrine, dopamine that are long lasting. People feel a big state shift. They feel better. Yep. But when one looks at the effects on metabolism, they're pretty slight.

Robert Lustig (1h 58m 17s):
They are

Andrew Huberman (1h 58m 17s):
Slight. They they're slight. However, studies like that to me always seem shortsighted in the sense that if there's a longer arc of effect on the Mitochondria that's affecting other things in terms of how Calories are Processed or how calories are feeding into mitochondrial function or dysfunction. There, I could see how it might shift the, shift the scale, so to speak. I mean cold is a, is an amazingly powerful stimulus. It is. And I think of light cold food movement, it's kind of like the core four ways in which you can shift physiology easily.

Robert Lustig (1h 58m 55s):
All of these things are imminently manipulable and for almost $0. Okay. But you have to know what you're doing. And right now we've been actually kept from that knowledge. And you know, if you're addicted it's really hard to dict yourself.

Andrew Huberman (1h 59m 12s):
So that brings us back to this thing about Food, Industry, conspiracies, government conspiracies and the rest. Boy, this is gonna be an interesting, we can go section, but what do we do, like, so if you and I go up to Cap Capitol Hill,

Robert Lustig (1h 59m 31s):
Which I've

Andrew Huberman (1h 59m 32s):
Done. Yeah. Which you've done. And and maybe I'll join you someday. And you know, you're at UCSF. I'm down at Stanford. You're a clinician. I'm a scientist. And, and a Public Health advocate. Podcaster. Right. And we explain to people, Hey, listen, like there's the, the food is laced with a drug. It's my, it's not even really food. It's,

Robert Lustig (1h 59m 51s):
That's right. It's

Andrew Huberman (1h 59m 52s):
Not food. It's an aggregate of food and non-food parts that make you think it's food. It's sort of like telling people, Hey, your kids are, you know, they're swimming in a swimming pool, looks like water, but it's actually part poison. And it's, and it's harming them. It's giving them, you know, if you say those kinds of things, I mean, congressmen and women are, they're like reasonably smart people, right? I mean, are aren't they gonna do something about it? No. So where is the conflict? Is it that the Food Industry has the government by the short hairs? That's

Robert Lustig (2h 0m 19s):
Exactly right.

Andrew Huberman (2h 0m 20s):
And they have them by the short hairs where, I mean, is it, are they lining their pockets? I mean, where, where, where is the leverage act actually exerted?

Robert Lustig (2h 0m 28s):
Okay. So they're, they are lining their pockets. That's number one. That is absolutely true. We have the data to support that. Blanche Lincoln, who was a senator from Arkansas, who was the chairman of the nutrition committee, you had to see her campaign contributions every time she was up for reelection.

Andrew Huberman (2h 0m 42s):
So it's all about getting reelected, or it's about them like having a, like a third home in the Hamptons. It's,

Robert Lustig (2h 0m 47s):
So, I think it's the third home in the Hamptons. Okay. More than

Andrew Huberman (2h 0m 50s):
Anything. Okay. So it's really as bad as it, as, as some of the documentaries without question would make us believe without question

Robert Lustig (2h 0m 56s):
Goodness. And we, and we, and we have the data. There is a, an organization that I absolutely wanna call out because they are, you know, the most egregious organ, you know, a political organization on the face of the earth. They're called the American Legislative Exchange Council, Alec or Alec. And they write bills. They are a bill mill. Okay. And they are for whoever gives them money and who gives them money? Big, Pharma, big AG Agri Big oil and big food.

Andrew Huberman (2h 1m 29s):
And you're, so, you're including Big Pharma, you're a physician. You've written scripts before. You've written prescriptions for patients before. Isn't that Pharma that provides the drugs that allows your patients to feel better?

Robert Lustig (2h 1m 38s):
Well, the question is, do they, do they feel better? This is a big question. Let's, you want to go there?

Andrew Huberman (2h 1m 44s):
We can go there. But you're, but you're writing the script. I mean, I mean, I'm just trying to, I'm not trying to trying I'm not to challenge you, but I see. So, so you don't, there have to be instances where someone's thyroid deficient and you give them a, you know, a drug.

Robert Lustig (2h 1m 56s):
Absolute. Okay. I'm not So if so, if, if you've got a disease and a medicine will replace what's missing. Sure. Okay. So for deficiency diseases, which as an endocrinologist, that's what I do. Absolutely. and I did that, you know, with no compunction of of impropriety whatsoever. But that's not what we're talking about here. Let's talk about what we're really talking about. Let's start with Statins. Statins lower LDL. Okay. Does Statins reduce heart disease? Yes or no?

Andrew Huberman (2h 2m 35s):
You know, I seem to be whiffing today on all the quizzes and it's kind of becoming fun for me at this level. I, I'm gonna go with No, but, but I will say, you know, my friend and I think his expert physician as well, you know, Peter Atia and others, I do, you know, has talked about some of the positive attributes of Statins in certain cases for certain

Robert Lustig (2h 2m 55s):
Patients in certain cases. That's exactly right. and I completely agree. And by the way, Peter's a friend and, you know, we someday, we'll, we'll, you know, all, you know, go out drinking together. Yeah.

Andrew Huberman (2h 3m 4s):
Well, I won't drink, but, well, how about we share a steak, share

Robert Lustig (2h 3m 7s):
A stat. There we go. Absolutely. Okay. You got it.

Andrew Huberman (2h 3m 9s):
You guys, I don't, I don't know if you drink, he drinks a little bit if

Robert Lustig (2h 3m 12s):
You're, if you're listening. Okay.

Andrew Huberman (2h 3m 14s):
He drinks a little bit porterhouse

Robert Lustig (2h 3m 15s):
On

Andrew Huberman (2h 3m 15s):
Me. Yeah. I don't do the dessert or the, or the alcohol anymore, but I'm, but I'm, and it's not So I can live to be 120. It's so I can wake up the next morning and, and keep up with you guys.

Robert Lustig (2h 3m 24s):
It's fine. Yeah. I get it. The, so for primary prevention, that is your LDLs high, you need a statin. That's primary prevention. You haven't declared yourself, you haven't had an event for primary prevention. The mean increase in lifespan for being on a statin is four days. Four days. Four days. Four

Andrew Huberman (2h 3m 47s):
Days have to chuckle. That's, that's,

Robert Lustig (2h 3m 51s):
And the risk for Diabetes is 20% increase.

Andrew Huberman (2h 3m 56s):
What about any improvement in, in quality of life? None

Robert Lustig (2h 3m 59s):
For primary prevention. Now for secondary prevention, for secondary, in other words, you've already declared yourself, you already have a problem for secondary prevention. That's where Statins shine. So there's a value to them. I'm not arguing that. And if you have familial hypercholesterolemia, which is one in 500, okay, not only do you need a statin, but you need a low fat diet and a priest. Okay. So there is definitely a value to Statins, but not for primary prevention. But that's what everybody, what every doctor's doing. Oh, you're LDL, it's over 80, you know you need a statin. That's ridiculous. That is absolutely a joke.

Robert Lustig (2h 4m 39s):
And the data s show that In fact, In fact, my colleague Isim Malhotra in the UK participated in an analysis where they took the entire UK population and they took out everybody under age 65. So you're looking at people 65 to 90. And it turned out that the LDL level correlated with longevity. The higher the LDL, the longer they lived when you took out all the people who had problems. So LDL is not really the problem. And the reason is 'cause there are two LDLs. There's one called large buoyant. There's one called small dense. Turns out dietary fat raises your large buoyant, your large buoyant is irrelevant.

Robert Lustig (2h 5m 24s):
It is cardiovascularly neutral. But that's the one that's Statins effects. The small dense, that's the atherogenic particle. When your small dense LDL is high, that means you are not clearing triglyceride peripherally because that's what small dense show you. That's that, that's what happens to triglyceride is beco. They become small dense. Can

Andrew Huberman (2h 5m 49s):
I take a guess and say that the best way to reduce small dense is to reduce Insulin?

Robert Lustig (2h 5m 57s):
Yes. By reducing sugar. Because that triglyceride is made in the liver. It's all pate. And that's the only fat that the liver knows how to make. And so triglyceride is your liver output of Carbohydrate. That's how you have to look at triglyceride. So triglyceride turns out to be much more important as a cardiovascular risk factor than LDL ever was.

Andrew Huberman (2h 6m 23s):
So does the, does Big Pharma and big food, do they know all of this?

Robert Lustig (2h 6m 28s):
Yes, I know they know. 'cause they've told me so.

Andrew Huberman (2h 6m 32s):
And,

Robert Lustig (2h 6m 32s):
But they have Statins to sell

Andrew Huberman (2h 6m 35s):
And foods in the, the NOVA class four,

Robert Lustig (2h 6m 40s):
They know this too. So,

Andrew Huberman (2h 6m 41s):
You know, I'm an optimist or you know, what, what's it gonna take to really move the needle? I mean, you described the four barriers we're trying to add to the knowledge component. Now, you know, what's it gonna take? Is it going to take, you know, having a president in an office or a congress, people in office that really understand and care about this stuff?

Robert Lustig (2h 7m 5s):
Yeah.

Andrew Huberman (2h 7m 6s):
I mean, to really revamp the whole system. Yeah.

Robert Lustig (2h 7m 9s):
So right now the system is completely and utterly broken. Completely and utterly broken. And there's a reason why it's completely and utterly broken is 'cause the Food Industry likes it that way.

Andrew Huberman (2h 7m 19s):
Well, it's profitable for them. Obviously there

Robert Lustig (2h 7m 22s):
Are 51 different federal agencies that manage our food, 51. And none of them know what the other one's doing. And the Food Industry likes it that way.

Andrew Huberman (2h 7m 33s):
So communication across these F 51 organizations would help.

Robert Lustig (2h 7m 38s):
Well, if we had a centralized food czar or food, you know, if, if we split the food off the FDA, because you know, it's like, it's not the it FDA, it's the DA or the FDA is not the Food and Drug Administration, it's the Federal Drug Administration. They spend a lot of time on drugs. They spend almost no time on food.

Andrew Huberman (2h 8m 1s):
Well, let's think about where there's been success. So I can recall when people smoked on planes. I actually recall going to a gym in Europe and there was an ashtray molded into the squat rack. Yep. That was telling. Yep. I don't see people smoking cigarettes around Stanford Hospital anymore. But I remember when they initially said that people couldn't smoke anywhere except in this one little designated area. Right. And that's typically what you see nowadays. And my understanding of the anti-smoking campaign, at least for kids, for people 18 and younger, was that telling people it was bad for their health didn't work. That's right. Showing them lungs that were decrepit didn't work. Right. Did not work. What worked was showing them commercials of cackling, handwriting white guys who were talking about how much money they were making Yeah.

Andrew Huberman (2h 8m 50s):
Off of these naive kids who were buying cigarettes and other Tobacco products. So it became a, the, the effective campaign to end smoking in young people was to hijack their re inherent rebelliousness of youth. And then they were like, no, yeah, we're not gonna smoke. Stick

Robert Lustig (2h 9m 9s):
It to the man. Right. Stick

Andrew Huberman (2h 9m 10s):
It to them. Like, you know, the, the, as my friend calls it, like the two bi, the two finger business card. Like no. And so that worked. That worked to some extent. Vaping's making a comeback. We vaping's a separate episode, we won't get into that, but because nicotine is still addictive, but you don't see a lot of people smoking cigarettes. So it worked like something that you would never imagine could ever work, worked

Robert Lustig (2h 9m 32s):
Well. So yes. No, I mean that's part of it. I'm not gonna tell you that it's not. It is part of it. And we actually have an example of how that could be applied to another toxic substance sugar. We had Berkeley versus Big Soda. You know, that's how Berkeley ended up with its Soda tax that dates back to 2015.

Andrew Huberman (2h 9m 54s):
The city of

Robert Lustig (2h 9m 55s):
Berkeley, the city of Berkeley, it, we just celebrated the five year anniversary of the Berkeley Soda tax. And we've been able to actually look gestational Diabetes way down. Obesity down slightly, not a lot, but a little bit. Cardiovascular disease down Dean Sillinger and Chris Madson at UCSF and uc. Berkeley just presented at San Francisco General just three weeks ago.

Andrew Huberman (2h 10m 22s):
So a Soda tax, like the cigarette tax, like the c just makes Soda expensive. Exactly. So you're telling me that a can of Coke that I buy on Shaddock Avenue in Berkeley costs more than a can of Coke that I buy in on University Avenue in Palo Alto.

Robert Lustig (2h 10m 37s):
It does.

Andrew Huberman (2h 10m 38s):
Huh. Okay.

Robert Lustig (2h 10m 38s):
Buy, buy a dime.

Andrew Huberman (2h 10m 40s):
And that was and sufficient enough to, to create this kind of change.

Robert Lustig (2h 10m 44s):
Well, and and yes it is.

Andrew Huberman (2h 10m 46s):
'cause money hurts.

Robert Lustig (2h 10m 46s):
'cause money hurts. E Exactly. So Andrew, there have been four count 'em, four cultural tectonic Shifts in America in the last 30 years. And they're all undeniable here. They are number one bicycle helmets and seat belts.

Andrew Huberman (2h 11m 4s):
Oh yeah. Everybody uses those

Robert Lustig (2h 11m 6s):
Two smoking in public places.

Andrew Huberman (2h 11m 8s):
Nobody does that.

Robert Lustig (2h 11m 10s):
Three drunk driving.

Andrew Huberman (2h 11m 13s):
Hopefully fewer people are doing that.

Robert Lustig (2h 11m 15s):
Four condoms in bathrooms,

Andrew Huberman (2h 11m 18s):
Condoms in

Robert Lustig (2h 11m 19s):
Bathrooms, in bathrooms. In public bathrooms.

Andrew Huberman (2h 11m 21s):
Yeah. You see those more available.

Robert Lustig (2h 11m 23s):
Okay. Yeah. Alright. 30 years ago, if a legislator stood up in a state house and proposed legislation for any one of those four and I don't care if it's in a state house or in Congress or in parliament or in the Duma or anywhere else in the world. Okay. Then I gotten laughed right outta town. Nanny state liberty interest, get outta my kitchen, get outta my bathroom. Get outta my car. Okay. Today they're all facts of life. Right? Nobody's belly aching about any of those. The point is, we were able to solve those four Public, Health debacle.

Robert Lustig (2h 12m 3s):
How did we do it? How did we solve those four? No one could imagine that we would ever solve smoking. Right. But we did sort of, I mean we brought consumption down by half. Okay. That's pretty good. When you think about it for an addictive substance,

Andrew Huberman (2h 12m 19s):
How many fewer people are dying of lung cancer nowadays in the US it's like

Robert Lustig (2h 12m 23s):
80% lower. Wow.

Andrew Huberman (2h 12m 25s):
Well there's also been improvements in treatment, but

Robert Lustig (2h 12m 27s):
Yeah, but no, it's, but it's, it's the

Andrew Huberman (2h 12m 29s):
Incidence we diagnosed with it's incidents.

Robert Lustig (2h 12m 31s):
The incidents. Incidents gone down.

Andrew Huberman (2h 12m 32s):
Amazing. Okay.

Robert Lustig (2h 12m 33s):
Because tobacco's gone down. So the question is how did that happen? And the answer is very, and why did it take 30 years to do it? We taught the children, the children grew up and they voted and the naysayers are dead. That's how you make a cultural tectonic shift. So we now have this Real, Food, Movement. We have people who are arguing against Ultra, Processed Food. We have kids who are demanding different in their schools. And by the way, what is the biggest fast food franchise in the United States?

Andrew Huberman (2h 13m 18s):
I'm gonna get this wrong. So

Robert Lustig (2h 13m 19s):
Try me again. I don't

Andrew Huberman (2h 13m 20s):
Know. I've never tried it, but I've heard of, is it Chick-fil-A?

Robert Lustig (2h 13m 25s):
Nope.

Andrew Huberman (2h 13m 26s):
Is it McDonald's? I don't know.

Robert Lustig (2h 13m 28s):
It is this nation's public schools. Ah, you can add up McDonald's, subway, burger King play and Wendy's and every other fast food franchise. Jack in the Box. Every fast food franchise in the entire country and would only be half our nation's public schools. Wow.

Andrew Huberman (2h 13m 54s):
So could you imagine a world where there were no class three or class four NOVA foods allowed in, in public schools and

Robert Lustig (2h 14m 4s):
We're doing it. So I am the chief science officer of a nonprofit and put this in the show notes called Eat Real eat real.org. And we have a new business model for public schools. So in 1971, the Department of Education issued an administrative ordinance called Resolution 2 42. And they did this purely on monetary issues, reasons, this was under Nixon. And what this resolution 2 42 said was that all school cafeterias all throughout the country had to make book.

Robert Lustig (2h 14m 45s):
They had to basically cover their costs. They couldn't be loss leaders for the school. They had to fend for themselves. Well this sent every food service director in the country scurrying for, you know, how am I gonna do this? 'cause I got all these, you know, you know, lunch ladies, you know, which, you know, personnel and, and, and food preparation equipment and, and, and costs, you know, that are, you know, mounting. How am I going to break even? And they couldn't do it. So in walks, you know, Aramark and Scicomm and Guggenheim and McDonald's and they say, Hey, we'll do it for you.

Robert Lustig (2h 15m 27s):
We'll provide every kid in America with a nutritious meal every single day. Hot lunch. Well, they didn't say hot.

Andrew Huberman (2h 15m 35s):
Okay.

Robert Lustig (2h 15m 35s):
They just said lunch. Okay. Nutritious. They said nutritious. Okay. and I put that in the air quotes too. 'cause it wasn't nutritious. And here's the added benefit. You can take your food preparation facilities and your footprint in the school and you can turn that into classrooms. 'cause you're gonna need them. And that was the goal. Because as soon as you've moved the food preparation facilities out of the school, you are now hostage to the Food Industry for the rest of your life.

Andrew Huberman (2h 16m 5s):
And I could also see how that allows room for them to use these commoditized Foods Foods that have very long shelf life. Exactly. Right. Because you wanna make sure that, you know, if you only sold, you know, two thirds of the Lunches that were prepared, that on next Tuesday after the weekend, you could still give them food that isn't moldy. Exactly.

Robert Lustig (2h 16m 24s):
Right. and I will tell you. So that's how it happened. And you can actually trace IQ scores and reading and math scores in this country down from 1971 to today

Andrew Huberman (2h 16m 40s):
When I went to school, I was allowed to get, I called it hot lunch 'cause it was usually hot. It was allowed to get the school lunch one day a week.

Robert Lustig (2h 16m 49s):
One day

Andrew Huberman (2h 16m 49s):
A week. The other days I had to bring my lunch. That one day was pretty special. Like you felt like you were getting a treat. Right. It was usually like a Corn dog or a hamburger. The hamburger was pretty poultry. But the, it's

Robert Lustig (2h 17m 1s):
A commoditized

Andrew Huberman (2h 17m 1s):
Hamburger. Yeah. Commoditized hamburger. You had to go looking for the patty portion. Indeed and the Bread was sweetened. And so it was, it was different. Right. But I don't remember nearly as much obesity I went to, to high school in the early nineties. So you're saying that now if I went to a high school, it would be a lot more sodas and donuts and Totally. Pizza. Pizza and Got it.

Robert Lustig (2h 17m 23s):
Yeah. Pizzas a vegetable. Didn't, you know,

Andrew Huberman (2h 17m 27s):
They claim it's a vegetable.

Robert Lustig (2h 17m 28s):
Congress said, pizza's a vegetable. Amy Klobuchar made pizza a vegetable.

Andrew Huberman (2h 17m 31s):
Maybe they need their eyes

Robert Lustig (2h 17m 32s):
Checked because the biggest frozen pizza producer is in Minnesota.

Andrew Huberman (2h 17m 39s):
I mean, the ketchup is a vegetable, was, was a, was a stretch, but at least it, it made sense on the NOVA system of going from Tomato all the way to to, to ketchup

Robert Lustig (2h 17m 48s):
To ketchup. Since high Fructose Corn Syrup is the primary ingredient in ketchup Indeed. So the point is that our kids are suffering under the weight, the burden of this chronic disaster of Ultra Processed Food, which is not food. And no wonder they're all obese and sick and, you know, doing so poorly in school. And by the way, also depressed. Ultra Processed Food has now been shown in three separate studies to correlate with depression in teenagers.

Andrew Huberman (2h 18m 25s):
So what is the relationship between Processed Food or maybe we call it NOVA system level three four foods and depression and other psychiatric challenges. And if you, could you separate out metabolic syndrome from obesity in answering that? Like, like is there something inherently depressing about carrying excess adipose tissue, setting aside any kind of aesthetic stuff, you know, how, how people want to look or perceived, you know, just is there anything bad about carrying a lot of body Fat independent of the Metabolic syndrome is for mood and, and overall sense of wellbeing.

Robert Lustig (2h 19m 6s):
No, I'm really glad you asked that. Andrew Andrew, we should have actually covered this earlier. Everyone thinks fat is Fat, as we've learned, Fat is not fat and a Fat is not afa, but body Fat is not body fat. There are three fat depots and they are metabolically different. First is the, does this bathing soup make me look fat, fat By the way, never answer that question. That's called subcutaneous Fat or big butt Fat, if you will. So here's the question. How many pounds or kilos of subcutaneous Fat do you have to gain before you become metabolically ill?

Andrew Huberman (2h 19m 51s):
I have no idea.

Robert Lustig (2h 19m 52s):
About 10 kilos. About 22 pounds.

Andrew Huberman (2h 19m 55s):
Okay.

Robert Lustig (2h 19m 56s):
Why? The reason is because that subcutaneous Fat drains into the systemic circulation. So you have to have a lot of cytokines coming from those subcutaneous adipocytes to raise the blood level of cytokines to the point where it starts doing damage at the level of the liver.

Andrew Huberman (2h 20m 20s):
So Fats are releasing cytokines which are pro-inflammatory.

Robert Lustig (2h 20m 23s):
Exactly.

Andrew Huberman (2h 20m 24s):
And, and they're doing that at rest. Any Fat cell,

Robert Lustig (2h 20m 26s):
Any fat cell. Okay. Any fat cell. But if it's going to the systemic circulation, you have a volume of distribution of six liters. So you have to lose, you know, you have to have a lot of cytokines to get the concentration up.

Andrew Huberman (2h 20m 39s):
Now just out of fairness to the fat, how many cytokines does a Muscle cell release? I mean, are, are we unfairly picking on adipose tissue? Because why would adipose tissue be pro-inflammatory? I mean a single Fat cell, okay, I've got a Fat cell sitting at, you know, in my shoulder someplace, right? I mean, I'm not zero fat at my shoulder. Why would it be pro-inflammatory?

Robert Lustig (2h 21m 4s):
So In fact, the Fat cell itself is not, here's what happens. The fat cell has a Fat ole, it has a storage place for this lipid droplet. You stuff it, you stuff it, you stuff it. The Fat vacuole gets bigger, bigger, bigger. The peri lipin border that encompasses that fat vacuole that it borders. The, the, the, the space ultimately can't get any bigger. And it starts breaking down. When that happens, it spills the grease into the fat cell. The fat cell dies, becomes necrotic that calls macrophages in to clean up the grease.

Robert Lustig (2h 21m 50s):
And it's the macrophages that release the cytokines. Alright, so In fact, the fat cell is not the problem. It's the breakdown of the grease that le leads to the macrophage activation. That's the problem. But when you do it in subcutaneous fat, it's going into this six liter tank. And so the concentration doesn't go up very much. So 10 kilos before you start seeing some effect. Fat depot number two visceral or big belly fat.

Robert Lustig (2h 22m 30s):
Now how many pounds or kilos of big belly fat do you have to gain before you get metabolically ill?

Andrew Huberman (2h 22m 38s):
I don't know, but I'm guessing it's less than 22 pounds. It's

Robert Lustig (2h 22m 40s):
Way less.

Andrew Huberman (2h 22m 41s):
Oh, for once I got answer right Today. Yeah,

Robert Lustig (2h 22m 43s):
That's right. About five. About five pounds. Now the question is why number one, the visceral fat does not drain into the, into the systemic circulation. It drains into the portal vein, which goes straight to the liver. So you're getting a bigger load going straight to the liver of

Andrew Huberman (2h 23m 4s):
Cytokines. Not to the kidney. Not the kidney. Good thing about getting an answer wrong folks to the is kidney that you never forget the correct answer. That's why I always tell my students. Right. So I'll never forget that.

Robert Lustig (2h 23m 13s):
Indeed.

Andrew Huberman (2h 23m 14s):
Got it.

Robert Lustig (2h 23m 15s):
And the question is, what made the visceral fat in the first place? Was it calories? No, it's Cortisol, it's stress. It's the combination of the sympathetic nervous system and Cortisol. And the reason we know this is because you can take patients with major depressive disorder with endogenous depression who are suicidal, who have to be admitted to the hospital to keep themselves from killing themselves, stick them in a scanner and they are losing subcutaneous fat like crazy 'cause they're not eating but they're gaining visceral fat because of the high Cortisol and the stress.

Andrew Huberman (2h 23m 54s):
So there's something about the adrenal corticoid receptors in that area that just preferentially depot Fat there when Cortisol is high

Robert Lustig (2h 24m 3s):
Indeed because that's the metabolically active fat. Right? And five pounds will do it. And then finally the third fat depot, the liver. Now how many pounds of Fat can the liver store before you become metabolically ill?

Andrew Huberman (2h 24m 21s):
Oh, I gotta be even less because the liver's not nearly as large as the sort of abdominal region.

Robert Lustig (2h 24m 29s):
Half a pound, quarter of a keel.

Andrew Huberman (2h 24m 31s):
How much does a healthy liver weigh?

Robert Lustig (2h 24m 34s):
A healthy liver weighs 1500 grams. Okay. Okay. So you know, it's not very,

Andrew Huberman (2h 24m 43s):
I'm trying to translate quickly to pounds. So we're going metric, we're going as a standard metric. So

Robert Lustig (2h 24m 47s):
1500 grams would be three pounds. So you know, basically half a pound. Okay, so not very much because that's where the action is. And so when you have Fat in your liver, it Causes Metabolic dysfunction right away. And the question is, where did that Fat come from? That came from alcohol or sugar? So alcohol and sugar most metabolically egregious 'cause it affects the liver directly stress second most because it affects the visceral fat and subcutaneous Fat the least important in terms of metabolic derangement.

Robert Lustig (2h 25m 29s):
So yes, it may not look good in a bathing suit, but from a metabolic standpoint it is actually the least important. So the question then becomes, alright, what are you trying to fix? If you're trying to fix liver fat, it's really easy. Get rid of the alcohol and the sugar, except of course they're both addictive.

Andrew Huberman (2h 25m 49s):
Will that also liberate any Fat that's already in the liver?

Robert Lustig (2h 25m 53s):
Absolutely. And that's one of the reasons why Intermittent Fasting works is because it gives your liver a chance to basically offload what it's already stored. That's one of the things that Intermittent Fasting will buy you is a little e less liver fat. So that's a good thing. Alright. Now, stress on the other hand, as you know and as we've talked about, and as you know, you've had Dr. Sapp on your podcast before, you know stress is tough, you know, trying to mitigate stress, especially in today's environment. and I hope you'll invite me back sometime to talk about the, the role of stress on the amygdala.

Robert Lustig (2h 26m 33s):
Yeah,

Andrew Huberman (2h 26m 34s):
Gladly.

Robert Lustig (2h 26m 34s):
Okay. And then finally, you know, subcutaneous fat. So when people go on diet Sweeteners, what are they doing? Are they really reducing the Fat? And the answer is no.

Andrew Huberman (2h 26m 53s):
When you talking about Artificial Sweeteners

Robert Lustig (2h 26m 55s):
Artificial diet Sweeteners of any sort. And you can pick your Artificial sweetener. So aspartame or you know, sucralose, sucralose, Stevia, Stevia, monk fruit, the new ones, you know?

Andrew Huberman (2h 27m 8s):
Yeah. The one that people are more excited about nowadays is aose Allulose. Yeah. It's expensive. It tends to have less of an Artificial sweetener taste that people can detect. Right? So you're saying that regardless of, oh, and we should, I'm remembering from the comment section, I do read them Artificial Sweeteners and non Caloric Sweeteners. Yes. Because then when the moment you say Artificial, people say, what about stevia? What about aloe? So, so, so let's just say Non, Caloric Sweeteners can wrap our arms around all that entire category. Sure. Unless we need to distinguish among the different participants in that category. So you're saying that even though people can lower their total Caloric intake pretty effectively, I've seen the studies that show if you know dieters who consume water only as their, you know, main liquid versus diet sodas with aspartame typically, or stevia, the Diet Soda drinkers actually lose more weight.

Andrew Huberman (2h 28m 8s):
We, we know that. But you're saying there may be deposition of fat in the liver in those individuals specifically because of the Artificial sweetener.

Robert Lustig (2h 28m 17s):
Because of the Insulin. Turns out there's still an insulin response. So fa, very famous study done in Copenhagen, a hundred normal individuals, 25 and four different groups. One group, one one liter of sugared Soda per day for six months,

Andrew Huberman (2h 28m 38s):
One liter. That's a lot of sugar Soda. Yeah.

Robert Lustig (2h 28m 40s):
One group, one liter of Diet Soda per day for six months.

Andrew Huberman (2h 28m 44s):
I probably did that in graduate school.

Robert Lustig (2h 28m 46s):
One group, one liter of milk per day for six months. I

Andrew Huberman (2h 28m 50s):
Probably did that when I was an infant.

Robert Lustig (2h 28m 52s):
And finally one final group, one liter of water per day for six months.

Andrew Huberman (2h 28m 56s):
I do that now. I do more than that. But yeah,

Robert Lustig (2h 29m 0s):
The one liter of Soda per day in six months gained 10 kilos.

Andrew Huberman (2h 29m 6s):
The sugary Soda, the sugary Soda, 10 kilos. Okay.

Robert Lustig (2h 29m 8s):
10 kilos. No surprise. The one liter of water per day lost two kilos also. No surprise. Those were the easy ones. Now let's do the ones in the middle. One liter of milk per day. No change.

Andrew Huberman (2h 29m 25s):
Presumably that was full fat milk. We're talking about

Robert Lustig (2h 29m 27s):
Europe. Full fat milk, full Fat milk. Yeah.

Andrew Huberman (2h 29m 29s):
They liked their, their full fat milk.

Robert Lustig (2h 29m 31s):
No change. Why is that? They're taking on an enormous increase in total Caloric intake.

Andrew Huberman (2h 29m 40s):
I'm guessing that there is a blunted Insulin response due to the Fat in the milk.

Robert Lustig (2h 29m 44s):
And also because lactose is not a very big driver of insulin response. And because there's a satiety effect that's like food. They eat

Andrew Huberman (2h 29m 55s):
Less. Yeah. It's like

Robert Lustig (2h 29m 56s):
Food. Like food. And finally the key, the kicker to the whole thing, Diet Soda, the one liter of Diet Soda. What, what would you predict their weight would do

Andrew Huberman (2h 30m 8s):
More weight loss than in the water group. Based on my understanding of the

Robert Lustig (2h 30m 12s):
Literature, they gain two kilos. Wild

Andrew Huberman (2h 30m 15s):
Because they ate more.

Robert Lustig (2h 30m 17s):
Well you tell me, why did they gain two kilos if they were consuming a liter of Diet Soda, which are zero calories? The answer is because they still generated an insulin response and

Andrew Huberman (2h 30m 29s):
That insulin response generated more hunger,

Robert Lustig (2h 30m 32s):
More, more weight, and more hunger. Exactly. And that's the key. So they didn't gain the 10 kilos, they gained two kilos. So it looks better compared to the sugared version. But it looks like, you know, a problem compared to the water version or even the milk version.

Andrew Huberman (2h 30m 52s):
So unless you bootstrap calories and hold that constant, you're gonna see a Weight Gain due to Artificial sweetener intake.

Robert Lustig (2h 30m 58s):
Exactly right. And that's been shown 50 ways from Sunday at a whole bunch of different studies. So compared to sugar, yeah it's better. But compared to water, it's way worse. And the reason is the insulin response, you put something sweet on the tongue, message goes tongue to brain. Sugar's coming message goes brain to pancreas through the vagus nerve sugar's coming, release the insulin. And so tongue doesn't know if it's sugar or not. It releases the ins, the pancreas releases the insulin, which drives energy into fat. Whether it was, you know, from the diet sweetener or not.

Andrew Huberman (2h 31m 34s):
I, I saw some really interesting data from Dana Small's group at Yale. Yep. Showing that when people have a Diet Soda with food, so this is like the diet Coke with the sandwich or with the burger, maybe even with the pasta, the insulin response from the food and the Insulin response from the Diet Soda are compounded. But there's a classical conditioning effect, Pavlovian effect, such that then later if they just drink the Diet Soda, they get an even bigger insulin response just to the Diet Soda than they would have originally if they had only had the Diet Soda separate from food. So in other words, the, the Insulin, the food induced Insulin response is conditioning a greater Insulin response from the Diet Soda.

Robert Lustig (2h 32m 13s):
And we actually have another study that demonstrates the same thing out of Singapore teal in American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 2018 I believe that looked at a a, a similar paradigm. Here's what they did. They took a bunch of people and they admitted them to their clinical research center four times a week apart. And they did it in random order and each time they started the morning Fasting and they did either a sucrose tolerance test or an aspartame tolerance test or a sucralose tolerance test or a monk fruit tolerance test.

Robert Lustig (2h 32m 56s):
So two hours, you know, ingesting one of the three, one of the four and measuring Glucose and insulin over the course of the next two hours.

Andrew Huberman (2h 33m 5s):
Fasted.

Robert Lustig (2h 33m 6s):
Fasted. Okay. Okay. Then it was time for lunch and they let them have whatever lunch they want. It was a metabolic buffet. They could eat whatever they wanted off the buffet except that they were being clocked. And the same for dinner. They were being clocked, but they could eat whatever they wanted

Andrew Huberman (2h 33m 26s):
In a given period of time

Robert Lustig (2h 33m 27s):
In the 24 hours. Okay. And you know, or you know, from 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM whenever they went home. Okay. Turned out the sucrose tolerance test generated an Insulin response as you'd expect the monk fruit thete the sucralose and the aspartame did not. But then when they ate lunch, they, if they had had one of the three diet Sweeteners in the morning, they ate more at lunch and more at dinner and generated an increased insulin response both at lunch and dinner. So that the area under the curve for the whole day was exactly the same.

Andrew Huberman (2h 34m 5s):
So they ate a sig significantly more.

Robert Lustig (2h 34m 8s):
Yeah. Yeah. Because they had the Diet Soda in the morning.

Andrew Huberman (2h 34m 13s):
Wild. Well I drink drinks that contain stevia and I. Don't worry about it too much. But what you're saying is even if I bootstrap my calories, there's a possibility that the insulin response could have direct effects on the liver.

Robert Lustig (2h 34m 29s):
Exactly.

Andrew Huberman (2h 34m 30s):
Right. And not for the

Robert Lustig (2h 34m 31s):
Better and not for the better. Now having said that, we have undertaken an interesting project, which I don't know if you know about. In 2020 during the pandemic, I was approached by a food company in the Middle East called Kuwaiti Danish Dairy Company. KDD. It's the Nestle of the Middle East. Now they make all sorts of junk. Frozen yogurt, flavored milks, ice cream, confectionary biscuits, Tomato Sauce. Okay? Kuwait has an 18% Diabetes rate and an 80% obesity rate.

Robert Lustig (2h 35m 15s):
8 0 8 0 Wow. In the adults. Alright? Now the company recognized that they wanted to be a metabolically healthy company and they knew they weren't. They contacted me and said, would you put together a scientific advisory team to advise us what we need to do to change the food in order to be a metabolically healthy company? And we wanna lead. and I said we'd be happy, I'd be happy to do that with one proviso. We get to publish what we did so that it can serve as a roadmap for the rest of the Food Industry. And they said fine.

Robert Lustig (2h 35m 56s):
And so I convened a scientific advisory team with my colleague Wolf from Alderson, who started the very first farmer's market in Los Angeles and is now actually the director of sustainability and nutrition for KDD Tim Harlan, who is the head of culinary medicine at George Washington University. Rachel Gal who is a fatty Acid expert who ran the Omega three for a DD trial at the NIH and Andreas Corn dot, who's actually a computer scientist from Stanford. And we basically stripped down every single thing that KDD did in terms of procurement, in terms of ingredients, in terms of packaging.

Robert Lustig (2h 36m 40s):
We submitted every single ingredient to biochemical analysis. We, 'cause you couldn't trust what the vendors were basically telling KDD was in the food. We had had to actually know what was in the food. And that was a half a million dollars all by itself. I mean this was not a cheap little, you know, you know, sojourn into the woods. This was a big deal. We basically re-engineered their entire 180 item portfolio and they have now turned over 10% of their products to be metabolically healthy. And the precepts that we set in this paper, which is in Frontiers in Nutrition in March of this year, 2023, three things, three principles.

Robert Lustig (2h 37m 24s):
If you adhere to these three principles, you can turn any food healthy, including Ultra, Processed, Food. Number one, protect the liver. Number two, feed the gut. Number three, support the brain. If you have a food that does all three of those, it is healthy. If you have a food that does none of those three, then it's poison because it's not food. It's,

Andrew Huberman (2h 37m 49s):
I was gonna say, it doesn't sound like food is the, is the right the right descriptor in that case. Exactly.

Robert Lustig (2h 37m 55s):
And if it's does one or two, but not all three, then it's gonna be somewhere in between. So the goal was to take all of kdds products and move them from, you know, the lowest tier up to the highest tier by adhering to these three principles. And we came up with some very simple things. Number one, gotta get rid of the sugar. Number two, gotta add Fiber. Number three, gotta add Omega threes. Number four, gotta do something about the emulsifiers. 'cause the emulsifiers are causing the gut Inflammation, because after all, emulsifiers are detergents. They hold Fat and water together, they Burn a hole in the mucin layer.

Robert Lustig (2h 38m 35s):
So they're actually contributing to that. Gut Inflammation and emulsifiers are, you know, strewn throughout Ultra, Processed Food dom,

Andrew Huberman (2h 38m 43s):
We've heard about Hidden Sugars a lot during today's episode and elsewhere. But based on everything you told us about Artificial, excuse me, low Caloric Sweeteners, it makes more sense to me now, why Foods that are not touted as diet foods would be laced with things like sucralose because it should drive the craving for that food through increases in insulin and craving of other Foods later that day and later that evening. Is that why Non Caloric Sweeteners are added to all sorts of foods now that, because typically one thing's non Caloric Sweeteners probably only added to quote unquote diet Foods low Caloric Foods.

Andrew Huberman (2h 39m 23s):
But that's not their

Robert Lustig (2h 39m 24s):
Only means. You're right. It's that that's not the case. And they are adding diet, diet Sweeteners to Foods that you didn't know had diet Sweeteners in them. That's right. There are two reasons that this happens. One is Insulin, because insulin blocks Leptin signaling at the level of the hypothalamus and the nucleus accumbens. So if it blocks Leptin, Leptin is the hormone that your fat cells make that tells your brain you've had enough. So if insulin blocks Leptin, it makes you hungrier. And it also extinguishes it, it it stops the extinguishing of reward by that food so that you want more of it. So it does both because Leptin normally suppresses food intake and reduces craving.

Andrew Huberman (2h 40m 8s):
The analogy that comes to mind is a slot machine that encourages you to feed more money and hit go to pull the lever. But that also blinds you to the outcome. So even if you win, you don't even know that you have wins. It's also blinding you to your losses. You're effectively becoming a a automaton Yeah. Of just eating without any kind of conscious understanding of what you're, you're bringing in or tasting the food any longer. Exactly right. It's not this like, and Anna Lemke, when she came on the podcast, a author of Dopamine Nation and obviously head of our dual diagnosis Addiction clinic at Stanford know Anna well talked about, you know, these, these consumptive behaviors where people are scrolling Social Media or consuming porn or consuming drugs or alcohol in a way that like they're not in touch with the pleasure of the, of the substance or behavior anymore, right?

Andrew Huberman (2h 40m 60s):
They become automatons, but they, but if they don't do it, they feel lousy. So the pleasure is gone. The pain is definitely a weighting

Robert Lustig (2h 41m 7s):
Tolerance and dependence. That's the definition of Addiction. So dopamine is an excitatory neurotransmitter. It excites the next neuron. Always. There is no such thing as dopamine inhibiting a postsynaptic neuron. Dopamine stimulates the next neuron. And it doesn't matter which dopamine receptor it is one through five, it's always excitatory. Now neurons like to be excited, that's why they have receptors. But neurons like to be tickled, not bludgeoned, chronic overstimulation of any neuron. And you know, this leads to neuronal cell death. And the reason is because the neuron needs energy. The neuron is the most energy dependent tissue in the body.

Robert Lustig (2h 41m 53s):
It needs those Mitochondria to be pumping out a TP like crazy to engage in neurotransmission. Well, when you're firing nonstop, you risk cell death. So the excitatory neuron, the, the postsynaptic neuron has a plan B, it downregulates the receptor, it down regulates the dopamine receptor. So there's less chance that any stray dopamine molecule will find a receptor to bind to. And this is its plan B in order to try to mitigate the risk of dying. Well what does that mean in human terms?

Robert Lustig (2h 42m 34s):
It means you get a hit, you get a rush, receptors go down, next time you need a bigger hit to get the same rush and receptors go down and you need a bigger hit and a bigger hit and a bigger hit until finally you need a huge hit to get nothing. That's called tolerance. And then when the neurons do start to die, that's called Addiction. That's what we've got and that's what's happened in terms of food Addiction. So the question is, what's addictive? Is Fat addictive? No. 'cause if Fat was addictive, then all the people on the Atkins diet or on the ketogenic diet would be be gaining weight, not losing it.

Andrew Huberman (2h 43m 12s):
And I'd be craving ribeyes all day. I like a ribeye pretty often actually. But I know, I know people say no, but hey look, my lipids are in, in line and I. I don't eat many starches and I certainly avoid sugar. Right? Although now I'm thinking I might want to really reduce my low Caloric sweetener intake. I don't see myself reducing my Stevia intake to zero. 'cause it's in some things I really like

Robert Lustig (2h 43m 34s):
Andrew. I am not the food police. You know,

Andrew Huberman (2h 43m 38s):
I I always say that to people. I'm not a cop. But the but, but, but data or data and, and and health data are the,

Robert Lustig (2h 43m 45s):
The, the data say that that's not helping you. Any, that's what the data say. Point is that the fat's not the problem. The salt's not the problem. The caffeine's a problem really. Caffeine's classic. A addictive substance at every level.

Andrew Huberman (2h 44m 5s):
Yeah. But in terms of, and the sugar's a problem. But if, if one can cut out Caffeine by the early afternoon or even sooner in the day and it's not consumed to excess and it's in the former coffee orba mate some other form that's healthy, you know, is it really that much of a problem?

Robert Lustig (2h 44m 23s):
I

Andrew Huberman (2h 44m 23s):
Love coffee

Robert Lustig (2h 44m 24s):
In your mate. Me too. That's my Addiction.

Andrew Huberman (2h 44m 26s):
Like with a capital L underline bold face

Robert Lustig (2h 44m 29s):
Highlight. I-I-I-I-I feel your pain. And the answer is, no one has shown that coffee is toxic. It is addictive, but it's not toxic. Now if you mix the coffee with alcohol, now you got four loco. Now it's toxic. But in and of itself, Caffeine is not toxic and that's why there's a Starbucks on every street corner.

Andrew Huberman (2h 44m 52s):
But it is highly reinforcing. I did an episode on Caffeine where it covered some data that was published in the journal science, one of the three apex journals. And if you put Caffeine unbeknownst to the consumer into plain yogurt, people will crave plain yogurt. Indeed much more. I mean, people like the feeling of being caffe as long as it's not creating anxiety levels of, of energy. Exactly. I I'm gonna stick with Caffeine.

Robert Lustig (2h 45m 16s):
That's fine. Yeah. And so will I,

Andrew Huberman (2h 45m 18s):
We've been talking about a little bit about the hypothalamus as well as some peripheral gut-based mechanisms for hunger and satiety. Right? Right. This is a great opportunity to talk about some of the GLP one agonists that are now Widely used. So thing ty typically call those emic, but GLP one, gluc glucagon-like peptide one, right? Originally discovered in the Gila monster, which eats very seldom. And some really smart biologist, I love biology like this. I said, how come they don't have to eat very much? Well they, their blood is loaded with GLP one, right? And so they only have to eat one, whatever Gila monsters delight in per year or something outrageous like that. Humans make GLP one as well.

Andrew Huberman (2h 45m 59s):
My understanding is that GLP one, that that not that's injected, but that one makes naturally is acting on both the brain and the Gut to increase satiety.

Robert Lustig (2h 46m 12s):
So it is acting on the brain, no argument, but the primary action is on the gut. GLP one decreases the rate of gastric emptying. That is its primary driver. Yes, it does affect the brain. I'm not arguing that it does, but the primary effect is to reduce the rate of gastric emptying so you stay fuller longer because the food doesn't move through the stomach and the intestine.

Andrew Huberman (2h 46m 43s):
Interesting in South America, in Reay, in Argentina, it was long thought that yerba mate consumption, which we know very modestly increases GLP one like, and by the way, a lot of other things do too, that people were taking it for its after meals for its laxative effect. Partially, but that's, you know, it's not pleasant for

Robert Lustig (2h 47m 3s):
Well, but that's, but that's also at the colon,

Andrew Huberman (2h 47m 5s):
That's at the level of colon rather than the stomach. But it is used fairly effectively for people to space their meals without snacking that you're, you know, and maybe it's the GLP one, maybe it's something else. Yeah. But people are injecting themselves with GLP one analogs now

Robert Lustig (2h 47m 20s):
At $1,300 a month. Yeah.

Andrew Huberman (2h 47m 22s):
Is that what it costs? That's

Robert Lustig (2h 47m 23s):
What it costs. Right.

Andrew Huberman (2h 47m 24s):
And it seems to be pretty effective at inducing weight loss, although a significant amount of that weight loss seems to be from a skeletal Muscle tissue.

Robert Lustig (2h 47m 31s):
And we're gonna, we need to talk about that.

Andrew Huberman (2h 47m 33s):
So, so what are your thoughts on Ozempic as a, as a primary? Earlier you talked about primary and secondary control. Are you referred to it a little bit differently in the context of Statins? Right? So a kid comes in who's obese or is slightly overweight, right? And it's like, hmm, I don't know what to do. I'm trying to eat better exercise. Or a person comes in and says, Hey I've, I've had a really hard time getting that last 29 pounds off for so many years. Yep. Will you prescribe me Ozempic? So

Robert Lustig (2h 47m 58s):
The short answer is, number one, I'm retired so I'm not prescribing anything. But let's let, let's, let's go with there. The data show that GLP one analogs like Semaglutide and now Tirzepatide, which is Lilly's version. Manjaro is the Diabetes version. Zep bound is the obesity version. Okay? In the same way that Ozempic is the Diabetes version for Novo Nordisk and Wegovy is the obesity version. So they're

Andrew Huberman (2h 48m 29s):
All GLP one

Robert Lustig (2h 48m 30s):
Analog, they're all GLP GLP one analogs,

Andrew Huberman (2h 48m 31s):
They're synthesized in a lab. It looks like GLP one smells like GLP one acts like GLP one when injected

Robert Lustig (2h 48m 36s):
Tirzepatide, the Lilly one actually has a dual function. It it binds to the GIP receptor. So it might have double duty and the data show that it's actually even slightly more effective at weight loss than the Novo Nordisk version. So we'll be seeing a shift in terms of consumer preference soon. No doubt. But here's the thing, you look at the data one year of 16% weight loss. Now that sounds great and I'm not saying it's bad, it's

Andrew Huberman (2h 49m 13s):
Good. And people are not craving food all the time. Is that because people are feeling full longer, right? So they're eating less, they're

Robert Lustig (2h 49m 20s):
Eating less. And so this

Andrew Huberman (2h 49m 21s):
Is the Caloric and Caloric out model.

Robert Lustig (2h 49m 23s):
They're eating less and so they are losing weight. I'm not arguing that.

Andrew Huberman (2h 49m 27s):
And they might be craving alcohol less according to some recent reports.

Robert Lustig (2h 49m 30s):
Yes. Yeah. Well we can go there for a minute too in a second. Here's the problem. When you look at that 16% weight loss, as you just said, when you put people in a Dexus scanner, they have lost equal amounts of fat and Muscle. Now is it good to lose Muscle? No, it's not good. Ask any little old lady who breaks her hip if she wishes she had a little bit more Muscle

Andrew Huberman (2h 49m 55s):
Or somebody who diet had lost a lot of Muscle 'cause they weren't offsetting the weight loss with Resistance training or some other form of exercise. And the amount of food that they can eat in order to maintain that weight, to put it in scientific terms, sucks.

Robert Lustig (2h 50m 8s):
And you know, we mentioned Peter Atea earlier, okay? In outlive, he's made it very clear that sarcopenia lack of Muscle mass is one of the drivers of mortality. So losing Muscle is not a, a good idea, but you lose equal amounts of Fat and Muscle. What else? Causes, loss of equal amounts of fat and Muscle starvation. In fact. The reason that all these GLP one analogs work is because you stop eating like the he

Andrew Huberman (2h 50m 40s):
Monster.

Robert Lustig (2h 50m 41s):
It's starvation. Yeah. Just like the heel monster.

Andrew Huberman (2h 50m 42s):
Although the heel monsters look pretty chubby to me.

Robert Lustig (2h 50m 44s):
Well ask another heeler monster. Yeah,

Andrew Huberman (2h 50m 48s):
I did. But unfortunately whatever answer it provided was not interpretable Indeed.

Robert Lustig (2h 50m 52s):
The point is that starvation is not so good. And if you think about why it's working, it's reducing gastric the rate of gastric emptying. Alright, well it turns out that that's the reason for its side effects, the reduction in gastric emptying. That's why you get nausea, that's why you get vomiting. That's why you get pancreatitis. And most importantly now gastroparesis, your stomach turns to stone and you can't move any food through your intestine at all. And worse yet, when you stop the medicine, the gastroparesis doesn't get better.

Robert Lustig (2h 51m 36s):
This is not a good idea.

Andrew Huberman (2h 51m 38s):
This is like the opposite of the yorba mate induced effect, which has a sort of pro lave gastric mt maybe GLP one agonism. Gosh, okay. So it's obvious why people who've struggled to lose weight like it Yeah. Especially if they're struggled to lose weight was at least in their mind the consequence of being hungry all the time and needing to eat more.

Robert Lustig (2h 51m 58s):
Or was it because of the reward and the, you know, their dependence? Because In fact, yes, these GLP one analogs reduce reward and that's one of the reasons why they've noticed that, you know, thing reduction in alcohol consumption as well. And that sounds like a good thing. Except they're also, there are also numerous cases now of major depressive disorder in response to these drugs.

Andrew Huberman (2h 52m 29s):
It's almost like naltrexone or something for the treatment of Addiction. Well, worse, which, which sometimes can be useful. But now, but the attempting to remove the, the, the amplitude of that reward signal, I mean lot on paper it makes sense, but the but it doesn't always play

Robert Lustig (2h 52m 43s):
Out. Right. And in practice it doesn't play out. That's right. And so I'm gonna refer you now to a, an old literature that was from 2006. There was a drug that was approved in Europe called Roman Band. Okay? A trade name Acomplia. And it was approved in Europe for weight loss. And it was pretty good at weight loss. It caused about 20% weight loss. It also caused severe depression and 21 suicides.

Andrew Huberman (2h 53m 15s):
So it's no longer available

Robert Lustig (2h 53m 16s):
Because it was the Anth, yeah, it was pulled from the European market never approved in the United States. And the reason this happened was because this was the anti-marijuana drug. This was the anti munchies drug. This was an endocannabinoid antagonist. Well, when you reduce reward, you also reduce your desire to live. And that's why this concern about reduction in alcohol consumption, we've already seen major depressive disorder in patients receiving Ozempic. So are we gonna see the same thing play out as we did for Ramban? I'm worried about it. Or

Andrew Huberman (2h 53m 54s):
Fen.

Robert Lustig (2h 53m 55s):
Well, Fen didn't have no, it was cardiac. It was cardiac, right? Yeah. We had cardiac problems due to the fenfluramine because of the serotonin one B receptor agonism.

Andrew Huberman (2h 54m 7s):
Right? I'm just referring to the fact that these, these quote unquote blockbuster drugs for obesity that they tend to follow a contour of, you know, very promising, very exciting. A lot of people losing weight suicides or very promising, a lot of people losing weight, cardiac issues, very promising, losing weight. And now you're saying the stomach turns to stone. It sounds so biblical.

Robert Lustig (2h 54m 27s):
Well, Indeed. So that's the question. And then finally we can really talk biblical if everyone in America who qualified for Ozempic got it, that would be 2.1 trillion to the healthcare system, which is currently at 4.1 trillion. So that would be a greater than 50% increase in healthcare costs. Okay. At 1300 a month. Conversely, if we just got sugar consumption down to USDA guidelines, by basically, you know, putting some limits on how much Added Sugar the Food Industry can put into any given product, like Fruit Loops, we could reduce weight by 29% and save $3.0 trillion.

Robert Lustig (2h 55m 18s):
So we'd get better weight loss and we'd save $5.1 trillion, which makes more sense to the US government.

Andrew Huberman (2h 55m 29s):
Well, earlier you were alluding to government big food, Big Pharma relationships. I mean there's a huge win here for whoever's manufacturing these GLP one analogs Indeed. But the question is, who's paying the

Robert Lustig (2h 55m 42s):
Tab? Well, we are now the question is why can't the government see that? And the answer is because the government's on the dole too. Because the government, through tariffs on US, made foods okay, is $56 billion a year. So they're a player, they're not just a regulator, they're an actor.

Andrew Huberman (2h 56m 8s):
To play Devil devil's advocate a little bit, listen, I'm gonna be the last person I would step in and try and defend government as a, as a unified body. I'm not qualified to do that. But you could see how it, if you looked at it like checkers instead of chess, you'd say, okay, here's a drug that's going to allow many millions of people to reduce their overall body weight. Overall body weight is a risk factor for a number of things. And there will be savings on the back end as a consequence of that weight loss. I mean, so that's the checkers version, right? The chess version is how you're describing it. and I think that, I mean clearly people in government are, are, well most, some perhaps are smart enough to play chess, not checkers or to at least understand it.

Andrew Huberman (2h 56m 53s):
But there's very little incentive for the chess model. So what would quote unquote solve this problem is the same thing that happened to Fen or this Oma romantic, which is if suddenly there's a major issue with the drug, then everyone stops taking it. And traditionally that's how it's gone. It sounds like these GLP one analogs are gonna make it through the shoot though.

Robert Lustig (2h 57m 15s):
Yeah, I mean there is a very clear downside to these medicines. On the other hand, you know, there's an upside. And so I'm not sad that these medicines exist. I'm for them. I'm not against them. I'm for them for the right patient. And right now it's not the right patient who's getting them

Andrew Huberman (2h 57m 37s):
Just like the Statins. So what if somebody who's taking one of these analogs makes it a point to do Resistance training? And here, you know, you mentioned bodybuilders earlier, I'm not, I'm not suggesting they become bodybuilders, but we now know and I think Peter Attia and others would agree that everybody should be doing some form of Muscle loss, offsetting Resistance exercise. I agree. At least past, you know, their reaching their adult height or something. You know, I know there are those that say weight training doesn't blunt your height. But anyway, let's just say that from hit training, early twenties onward doing something,

Robert Lustig (2h 58m 8s):
Especially, especially if you're on these medicines, right? So in order to maintain Muscle mass,

Andrew Huberman (2h 58m 13s):
Right? So that's a different picture, right? People are drinking less alcohol. Again, I'm playing devil's advocate here. So if we look at these, these compounds, not in a vacuum, but okay, the person who's been carrying that extra 30 pounds is now only carrying a few extra pounds of adipose tissue. They've lost a lot of Muscle, but now they feel well enough to exercise the depression part worries me. Yeah. But anyway, I'm just, I'm just trying to round the contour of it.

Robert Lustig (2h 58m 39s):
What we've seen in children, you know, 'cause that's who I took care of was that often they needed a jumpstart. Okay? And there were different ways to get 'em to jumpstart

Andrew Huberman (2h 58m 50s):
Stomach stapling.

Robert Lustig (2h 58m 51s):
Well that's not jumpstart, that's,

Andrew Huberman (2h 58m 53s):
But that was what a lot of people did. I know, I have a friend, he's, he was, and sadly still is really big. And he always talked about the stomach taping. Like if I could just get 50 pounds down quickly, then I could exercise. But exercise is painful, this kind of thing. And, and sadly he's, he's continued to maintain or creep up and in a very excessive weight. And

Robert Lustig (2h 59m 13s):
That's the point is, you know, that this concept of jumpstart actually, if you're only doing it yourself, doesn't really work. And the question is, why is his weight creeping up if he's had the stomach stapling? And the answer is 'cause he's a sugar addict.

Andrew Huberman (2h 59m 29s):
Yeah. He's definitely addicted to the super big gulp Soda and yeah, you,

Robert Lustig (2h 59m 33s):
If you drink your calories, it doesn't really matter, does it?

Andrew Huberman (2h 59m 37s):
No. And, and he's got such terrible psoriasis and joint pain and all this, that the prospect of exercising is like a, you might as well tell him to, to like flap his wings and go to Mars.

Robert Lustig (2h 59m 47s):
You know, fructose is a driver of immune dysfunction. If he got off, you can tell him from me, if he got off the sugar, his psoriasis would get better, his weight would get better, his arthritis would get better. And he could have then that jumpstart.

Andrew Huberman (3h 0m 2s):
This is a perfect example to bridge to the brain component of all this. Because I've long wondered, based on what I understand about neuro circuitry and neuroplasticity and I know, we share in this knowledge that at some point carrying a lot of adipose tissue means that the brain sort of represents the body differently. I mean we know there are these, these somatotopic map maps of self, you know, but that the Neural machinery in the hypothalamus Sure. Which is responsible for motivated states, et cetera, but, but also just the entire Mapping of the self Yep. Changes. In other words, if one is fat long enough that it becomes increasingly hard to get to a, a healthy weight because of the way that the Neural circuitry is impacted.

Andrew Huberman (3h 0m 50s):
It basically remaps to maintain that that fat person, not necessarily even just at the level of appetite, but just in terms of what do you, what do big animals do? I had a bulldog that weighed 90 pounds. Bulldog Mastiff. He was very economical with his movement, right? Yes. He was extremely powerful Indeed. He could run at least in when he was younger, Indeed. But if he could be still, he was still as opposed to, yeah, certain smaller animals that are like peripatetic. Right? Because,

Robert Lustig (3h 1m 15s):
Because he was Leptin resistant. So Leptin, as we talked about briefly, is the hormone that tells your brain you've had enough. If you are Leptin sensitive, you are happy to Burn. If you are Leptin resistant, your brain thinks you're starving. And if your brain thinks you're starving, it's going to affect your behavior in two ways. It's gonna make you want to eat and it's also gonna make you want to conserve because the goal is to try to increase the Leptin levels in order to overcome that Resistance, which of course you can never do because all you're gonna do is lay down more fat and make more Leptin.

Andrew Huberman (3h 1m 51s):
That makes so more sense because Leptin comes from the adipose tissue.

Robert Lustig (3h 1m 54s):
Exactly. So that Leptin Resistance is what you have to be able to break through. You have to fix the Leptin sensitivity. Well, what's the driver of the Leptin Resistance Insulin insulin inhibits Leptin signaling and it does it at three separate places in the PCI neuron, the pro opium melanocortin neuron in the hypothalamus. It does it at IRS two Insulin receptor substrate two. It does it at Sox three suppressor of cytokine signaling three. And it does it at PIP three. Phosphatidyl, andal tri phosphate. Those three separate arms of the Leptin receptor are all basically put to sleep by high Insulin insulin blocks Leptin signaling.

Robert Lustig (3h 2m 45s):
So the higher the insulin goes, the more your brain thinks you're starving. And the more your brain thinks you're starving, the hungrier you get and the less you wanna move. So the gluttony and sloth that we've been talking about all, all you know, podcast is really biochemical, it is secondary to this phenomenon of insulin blocking Leptin signaling. You gotta fix that first, get the Insulin down any way you can, and the best way get rid of the refined Carbohydrate and sugar. That's where you start.

Andrew Huberman (3h 3m 24s):
It makes so much sense.

Robert Lustig (3h 3m 26s):
It works too. How about that?

Andrew Huberman (3h 3m 28s):
That's always good.

Robert Lustig (3h 3m 30s):
It is.

Andrew Huberman (3h 3m 31s):
I once heard you say, I think it was in a conversation with Peter att on his podcast, and this really stuck in my mind that when a person consumes Glucose, that it activates a number of different brain sites, you know, neurons loving Glucose, but that when one ingests fructose that it preferentially activates neurons in the reward pathway. That's right. At maybe seven times the, the magnitude or, or something like that. Well,

Robert Lustig (3h 4m 2s):
Glucose activates the basal ganglia. This is work from Erha and, and Switzerland and also Eric Stice at Oregon Health Science

Andrew Huberman (3h 4m 11s):
For Movement At Planning and Execution. Exactly.

Robert Lustig (3h 4m 13s):
Okay. Fructose basically stimulates the nucleus accumbens, the reward center. It is just like heroin, just like cocaine, just like nicotine. It activates the reward center. It doesn't do anything for the basal ganglia. So it is addictive. Anything that stimulates the reward center in the extreme is addictive. So we have chemical addictions, heroin, cocaine, nicotine, alcohol, sugar. We have behavioral addictions, shopping, gambling, internet gaming, Social, Media, pornography, doesn't matter. They all stimulate dopamine in the reward center and in the extreme, they're all addictive.

Robert Lustig (3h 4m 53s):
So the question is, if you were addicted, is that Personal Responsibility?

Andrew Huberman (3h 5m 1s):
Well, it's a very, it's a question I think about a lot because I know a lot of people in the Addiction recovery community, both from the treatment and in the addict end. Yep. And this always comes down to this question, when somebody is suffering from an Addiction of any kind and they're resistant to getting treatment, if you look at it, them as a, as being sick, at least in that moment, is a sick person in the best or worst or at least diminished position to guide their own treatment. So for instance, somebody with dementia, would you ask them, do you want to go see a neurologist? You might ask them that, but are they the best person to make that decision?

Andrew Huberman (3h 5m 44s):
Well,

Robert Lustig (3h 5m 44s):
This is the problem. So this is, this is where Personal Responsibility falls down. So Personal Responsibility, as we, you know, we talked about four criteria have to be met, none of them are met. That's the first issue. Second one is a little bit, shall we say, cheek gear. Who invented Personal Responsibility? Any idea?

Andrew Huberman (3h 6m 5s):
I'm definitely gonna get this, this one wrong. Yeah,

Robert Lustig (3h 6m 7s):
You're gonna get this one wrong. Are you ready? Go

Andrew Huberman (3h 6m 9s):
Ahead. Yeah. I don't know the

Robert Lustig (3h 6m 11s):
Tobacco industry,

Andrew Huberman (3h 6m 12s):
The notion of Personal Responsibility,

Robert Lustig (3h 6m 14s):
They invented it. There was no Personal Responsibility until Tobacco in 1962. 'cause they were getting killed on the science and they needed to invent another reason for you to smoke In. fact. There's a paper that came out, Dorfman etal that looked at the New York Times and the Washington Post and they did a entire lit search of the entire, of, you know, the, all of the output of those two newspapers for decades to look for the term Personal Responsibility. And the very first time it was ever mentioned was 1962.

Robert Lustig (3h 6m 54s):
And it didn't pick up in speed until 1986, which was the same year as Polone v Liggett in the, at the Supreme Court. Which basically said that the, you know, that the cigarette industry was, was guilty of, of applying people with an addictive substance. So this is very specifically industry driven and we have the data to prove it.

Andrew Huberman (3h 7m 24s):
Amazing. Well I wonder along the lines of Personal Responsibility, given that many listeners to this conversation are going to be thinking about their own food intake and Food Choices and that of their children and other relatives that we could play a little, a little, not a game, but a little rapid ish fire q and a. Never done this before in this podcast, but I think it's particularly appropriate for a discussion like this that wicks out into so many areas and I absolutely will invite you back and I perhaps along way. My pleasure, Melissa Apple, to talk about some of the exciting work you guys are doing. 'cause there's so much we could cover. But people are going to wonder in a very practical sense, whether or not they should or should not be consuming certain things.

Andrew Huberman (3h 8m 9s):
and I know you're not the food police, I'm not the food

Robert Lustig (3h 8m 12s):
Police

Andrew Huberman (3h 8m 12s):
And I'm not a cop. and I do believe people should are, should be in choice about these matters. But I also believe that 'cause you're a guest on the podcast and you're highly informed and, and I have done clinical work and research for so many years in this area and you have such a clear stance on the role of big food and, and we really, really appreciate your, your honesty and directness, whether that you'd be willing to provide a comment about a couple of different terms that I'll throw out. And if you choose to say really nothing to say about that, fine. That would be a quick pass. So here we go. And we covered a little bit of this earlier, but fruit in whole form, so has Fructose but has fiber.

Andrew Huberman (3h 8m 54s):
So thumbs up, thumbs sideways or thumbs down for Fruit consumption.

Robert Lustig (3h 8m 58s):
Fruit is fine. Fruit juice is not

Andrew Huberman (3h 9m 1s):
Great. Thank you. White Rice versus brown Rice and among the white Rice is the sticky Rice and the rices with Added Sugars, which you'll find in in a lot of, in a lot of restaurants.

Robert Lustig (3h 9m 14s):
Brown Rice because of the fiber. White Rice polished, you know, number one, all the Vitamin B one gone. And of course march larger Glucose excursion, that glycemic index thing, which of course I hate is it's glycemic load that matters. And that is a very high glycemic load. So brown Rice.

Andrew Huberman (3h 9m 36s):
So brown Rice is better than white Rice? Yes. Okay. In a meaningful way.

Robert Lustig (3h 9m 40s):
In a meaningful way.

Andrew Huberman (3h 9m 41s):
Okay. Earlier you mentioned Tomato Sauce. I love Tomato Sauce that's made from just tomatoes can toma. So is, are most Tomato sauces filled with sugar?

Robert Lustig (3h 9m 52s):
Perfect. Our little recommendation engine looked at this question and it turns out that only 10% of the available Tomato sauces out on the market don't have Added Sugar. So you have to know which ones where you can look yourself or you can look up perfect and it will tell you which ones you can buy.

Andrew Huberman (3h 10m 12s):
If people chose to consume Bread, which many people do, is there a way to just across the board without just baking your own or see or looking at the ingredients list to make a better choice? Is it like sourdoughs tend to have less sugar than blank?

Robert Lustig (3h 10m 29s):
Well, sourdough has been Fermented so it will have actually consumed some of the sugar. So it would be a better choice. But really the best choice is the highest Fiber breads. Now if you look at a wheat berry, it is 25% of fiber. The husk is 25% of the weight of that wheat berry. That means that the Carbohydrate to fiber ratio of a wheat berry is three to one. So a good Bread should have a Carbohydrate to fiber ratio of somewhere between three to one to five to one tops. Anything above that means that they've stripped the fiber away.

Robert Lustig (3h 11m 11s):
So that's something you could do, but the easier way is to actually look it up on. Perfect.

Andrew Huberman (3h 11m 17s):
You mentioned Meat and Meat sourcing egg and chicken sourcing earlier. Maybe we just revisit that Meat fish and Eggs. Thumbs up, thumbs sideways, thumbs down Or It depends.

Robert Lustig (3h 11m 28s):
It depends. It depends on where the Meat came from. It depends on whether it was pasture raised. Depends on whether it's organic or not. If the animal was injected with antibiotics, stay away from it because those antibiotics are in the Meat. They're gonna basically sterilize your gut and then the bad bacteria are gonna take over. We haven't really talked much about the Microbiome today, but that's a whole podcast all by itself.

Andrew Huberman (3h 11m 53s):
Well we can touch on it a little bit more. Fer, low sugar, Fermented, Foods. Thumbs up, thumbs sideways, thumbs down.

Robert Lustig (3h 11m 59s):
Fermented Foods, short chain fatty acids. All good.

Andrew Huberman (3h 12m 4s):
What are your favorite sources of Fermented?

Robert Lustig (3h 12m 5s):
Foods. I like kimchi.

Andrew Huberman (3h 12m 7s):
Yeah, I like kimchi too. I like some of the live sauerkrauts.

Robert Lustig (3h 12m 11s):
Yeah, that's also good. But with the right, you know, the right accoutrement, the one thing I would be careful about is yogurt. Okay. So there are yogurts with live cultures and there are a whole lot of yogurts with dead cultures. And if it's a yogurt with dead cultures, it's kind of irrelevant. And the chances are they've actually covered up the sourness with sugar. So commer, you know, large commercially available yogurt, be very, very careful. Okay, if it's a, you know, artisan yogurt, you know, made by, you know people you know or trust, you know, that's a very different story.

Robert Lustig (3h 12m 52s):
You know, yogurts with live cultures,

Andrew Huberman (3h 12m 54s):
Intermittent, Fasting. Do you practice it and what do you think about it?

Robert Lustig (3h 12m 58s):
I don't practice it, but I am for it for the right patient turns out who's the right patient, the patient with liver fat. Because the reason it works is 'cause it gives the liver a chance to basically Burn off the fat that it's stored.

Andrew Huberman (3h 13m 13s):
Zero Caloric Soda. Got it. There's definite no and I don't even have to ask about sugary Soda because that's, that's

Robert Lustig (3h 13m 22s):
That, that's basically just poison in a can.

Andrew Huberman (3h 13m 25s):
Food Combinations, I have a feeling I know what your answer is, but the glycemic index, which we know your feelings on now asserts that if you combine some Fat with a sugary, like, like eating ice cream, you have a more blunted insulin response than if you were to eat pure sugar of equivalent Calories. But what are your thoughts on Food Combinations as a way to blunt the insulin response?

Robert Lustig (3h 13m 48s):
Food Combinations are great if there's some fiber associated with it,

Andrew Huberman (3h 13m 52s):
It comes back to fiber again.

Robert Lustig (3h 13m 54s):
And by the way, and by the way, I, you know, full disclosure, I am the chief medical officer of a fiber company.

Andrew Huberman (3h 14m 1s):
What is it?

Robert Lustig (3h 14m 2s):
It is called bio luin and it is a proprietary fiber. It is a microcellular sponge, seven microns in diameter. So the size of a red blood cell, you swallow it, it goes to your stomach, it expands 70 fold over its original size. And so it'll give you a feeling of fullness 'cause it's taking up space in the stomach. But more importantly, when it expands, the nooks and the crannies in the sponge become available and embedded in those nooks and crannies are a set of proprietary hydrogels soluble Fiber, which sequester Glucose, fructose sucrose, simple starches and render them unavailable for early absorption in the duodenum.

Robert Lustig (3h 14m 47s):
Thus reducing the Glucose response, reducing the insulin response, protecting the liver and moving it through the intestines so that Microbiome can chew it up for its own purposes. Feeding the gut we can reduce Glucose absorption by 36%. Fructose absorption by 38%, sucrose, absorption by 40%. Simple starch absorption by 9% and increase short chain fatty Acid production by 60% without an increase in gas.

Andrew Huberman (3h 15m 19s):
When do people take this

Robert Lustig (3h 15m 22s):
With meals?

Andrew Huberman (3h 15m 23s):
Okay,

Robert Lustig (3h 15m 24s):
So it would be it, it comes as a sachet, one teaspoon, sprinkle it on your food or take it as a, you know, in a drink. You know, just mix it in and slug it down and then eat breakfast, lunch or dinner. And it will basically act like you ate real food. It will turn Processed Food into real food in the intestine. And we have clinical trial data that demonstrates that. Is

Andrew Huberman (3h 15m 51s):
It available as

Robert Lustig (3h 15m 52s):
A commercial product? It is available. It is called Munch. Munch now. I hate that name. I hate it too. I didn't make it up. Well

Andrew Huberman (3h 15m 58s):
I'm gonna marketers

Robert Lustig (3h 15m 60s):
Your market. The marketers did that.

Andrew Huberman (3h 16m 0s):
Yeah, your marketing team sucks, but the product sounds amazing. Yes. So

Robert Lustig (3h 16m 4s):
Bio luin do tech.

Andrew Huberman (3h 16m 5s):
Great, thank you for that. Sorry, munch, munch marketing team. But you gotta a munch munch to a new product name. But it sounds like a a, a very interesting product. And it actually answered my next question, which was about fiber supplements.

Robert Lustig (3h 16m 21s):
Fiber is good, but there are two kinds of Fiber. There's soluble and there's insoluble and they're not the same. So soluble is what goes into Fiber one bars. You know that cilium, inulin, pectin. Like what holds jelly together? That's good. I'm not saying it's bad, but you need the insoluble fiber, the cellulose, the stringy stuff in celery, the cardboard if you will, together they form this gel that we talked about earlier. If you only consume the soluble fiber, which is what the Food Industry will add to, to food. 'cause the insoluble fiber is not missable.

Robert Lustig (3h 17m 3s):
If you only add the soluble Fiber back, you're not getting the benefits of the entire fiber complement

Andrew Huberman (3h 17m 11s):
Earlier when talking about the NOVA system and how most all of our foods, so nine, let's say, I know it was seven to 10%, let's say 95%. Let's say on the side of better, 95% of our foods should come from NOVA system Class one or class two foods Or three or three, okay. Staying away from those NOVA class four foods. Yep. Could you give us some examples of NOVA Class one and class two Foods, just broad, broadly speaking. Okay.

Robert Lustig (3h 17m 37s):
NOVA Class one is any food without a label period. If you see a label on a food, it's a warning label.

Andrew Huberman (3h 17m 47s):
Well, there's ground, ground beef has a label. Okay, so that's Well does it, so so you're talking about apple. Well, when I buy it, it has a label. I'm asking this because people are gonna wonder, so well it doesn't have

Robert Lustig (3h 17m 57s):
A nutrition facts label. Is there a nutrition facts label on a thing of ground beef? I

Andrew Huberman (3h 18m 1s):
Buy that, that ground beef where I consume venison where if you flip it over, it says how many calories, how many protein? So there's a label, but, but it's just beef or venison. Okay.

Robert Lustig (3h 18m 13s):
And then that's class one. Okay, egg, egg is class one.

Andrew Huberman (3h 18m 17s):
So, and then of course fruit, apples, orange. Okay. So it doesn't matter if it has a, has a name, a name tag, as long as it, it doesn't have an ingredients

Robert Lustig (3h 18m 25s):
List, an nutrition tax label. Got it. It real food does not need a label. It's only if they did something to it that it needs a label. So you have to look at every label as a warning label. Now the problem with the label is it only tells you what's in the food. What you really need to know is what's been done to the food because it's the Ultra, Processed Food, that's the problem. They don't want to tell you that. That's secret. Okay. Secret from a proprietary standpoint, but also secret. Because if you knew what they did to it, you wouldn't need it. You would never buy it. And they don't want you to know. So they only tell you what's in the food. That's not what's important. It's what's been done to the food that's important. And that's why this NOVA class four is so important.

Robert Lustig (3h 19m 7s):
And that's why perfect is so important. 'cause it'll do the work for you. Great.

Andrew Huberman (3h 19m 12s):
We'll definitely provide links to all of these. So if you could pick one thing to recommend to people that want to improve their health.

Robert Lustig (3h 19m 23s):
Get rid of sugar. Okay. Period.

Andrew Huberman (3h 19m 26s):
Very clear.

Robert Lustig (3h 19m 26s):
That's number one. Number two, go for a walk.

Andrew Huberman (3h 19m 31s):
The exercise piece. Yeah,

Robert Lustig (3h 19m 33s):
Go for a walk.

Andrew Huberman (3h 19m 34s):
And if you could recommend one thing that the general public can do to try and assist in this Advocacy for not redefining, but actually clearly defining what is food and what isn't, and making people aware at the level of policy and change. And School Lunches, I mean, if there were one thing, what can we do? I mean, I I you've clearly activated my neurons surrounding like the, the, the set of problems that exist and the, the paths to correct them. But should we be writing to our Congress people? Should we be getting angry at hospitals because they've got all these fast food machines and that the cafeteria food is like, that would be good. Is like, is like illness promoting

Robert Lustig (3h 20m 15s):
At UCSF, we've gotten rid of all sugar beverages. We have the Healthy Beverage initiative. So no Coke

Andrew Huberman (3h 20m 21s):
Machines

Robert Lustig (3h 20m 21s):
At UCS? No, Koch machines at UCSF.

Andrew Huberman (3h 20m 23s):
Whoa, Stanford, check that out. 'cause you know, people always send me pictures of the, of the Koch machines in the school of medicine. I'm like, listen, I didn't put 'em there, but I I i

Robert Lustig (3h 20m 32s):
We have to model for the public, you know, I mean, where, where was the first place that smoking was banned? Hospitals. Okay. Because we knew. So if you get rid of the, you know, Soda, if you get rid of the sugared Soda at the hospital, you're telling people something. So yeah, I think that every hospital and really every public venue in America needs to clear out the junk.

Andrew Huberman (3h 21m 0s):
So post photos of junk that are supposed to be in, in health promoting institutions, and I guess the, we're trying to cancel junk food. Shame, shame. We're trying to cancel junk food. I'm pretty opposed to cancel culture, but here we go, we're gonna cancel. Marvelous. It's actionable, it's straightforward, it's low-cost, low time investment, zero cost, very low time investment. So thank you for that.

Robert Lustig (3h 21m 22s):
And look up eat real because we're doing it for your kids. So you need to help support it. Any school district in America can do it. So what do we do? We have a business model whereby the food services director either purchases or rents a dilapidated factory in the center of the district, repurposes it into a food preparation facility. They can make 27 to 30,000 meals a day, okay. With a, you know, skeleton crew. And then they, and, and you control what's in it. And because you're buying in volume, it actually reduces the cost.

Robert Lustig (3h 22m 3s):
So it's cheaper than buying it from Scicomm or Aramark or Sodexo or wherever. And then you farm it out via, you know, truck or bus to all the different schools. So every kid gets a hot meal made from scratch each day. And we can solve this problem.

Andrew Huberman (3h 22m 26s):
Can't help but ask this one last question. For people that want to cut out sugar, which you clearly stated is the most important thing to do for one's health. How do we know how much sugar is in something? I So should people be looking at Labels and just looking for how much sugar, how much Carbohydrate or could we even go so far as to say, if it says high Fructose Corn, Syrup, then it's, it's on the no-fly list. Don't don't, don't

Robert Lustig (3h 22m 53s):
Eat it. So the problem, the problem is that there are 262 names for sugar and the Food Industry uses all of them. And the reason they use all of them is because they can include a different sugar as number five, number six, number seven, number eight, number nine on the list. And when you add it up, it becomes number one, they hide it in plain sight and they do it on purpose. Now do I expect everybody to memorize all 262 names? No, of course not. Can you figure it out yourself? Well the answer is no. Unless they have the line where it says Added Sugars.

Robert Lustig (3h 23m 32s):
If it says Added Sugars, it is either sucrose or high Fructose, Corn Syrup, no one's adding lactose. Okay, that's not happening. Or

Andrew Huberman (3h 23m 40s):
Glucose,

Robert Lustig (3h 23m 41s):
They're not even adding Glucose because Glucose isn't that sweet. Glucose is not that interesting. You don't see people going around chugging Karo Syrup, do you? Okay, that's Glucose who caress. Yeah, it might be good in the molasses cookie, but that's it. Alright, so it's Fructose. So you need to know what's been added. So if it says Added Sugars, that's a good place to start. No greater than one teaspoon per serving, no greater than four grams per serving of Added Sugars, anything greater than that? Leave it the store

Andrew Huberman (3h 24m 16s):
And aim for those NOVA type

Robert Lustig (3h 24m 18s):
Type one, type two. And aim for NOVA, aim for NOVA types one, two, and three. And if you don't know whether it's NOVA type one, two, or three, you can use perfect. And if you don't look at that, then go look at the nutrition facts label. And anything that has more than four ingredients is NOVA Class four,

Andrew Huberman (3h 24m 36s):
Robert Lustig, thank you so much. You've provided such an incredible education in nutritional biochemistry. The processing of Fat, Protein, Carbohydrate, sugar fructose in particular, the clear detriments of consuming fructose on so many different organ systems. I love, love, love that you separated out food, science, nutrition, and metabolic

Robert Lustig (3h 25m 0s):
Health.

Andrew Huberman (3h 25m 1s):
Or that's just, I, that's a, you know, that's a gazillion dollar de delineation for people to understand and to shape their understanding of all the information that's out there and bins into these different categories. You've given us so many actionable tools, di new conceptual frameworks. You've given us a real tour de force today in thank you. A just oh, so clear language. So I want to thank you, thank you, thank you. I've learned a ton and, and I know everyone else has as well. And if people have questions, they can of course put them in the comments section on YouTube. That's the best place. We'll provide links to all the, the companies and websites that, that you referenced and some of your other work.

Andrew Huberman (3h 25m 44s):
And listen, I just, I'm so, so grateful that you exist and that you've done the work that you've done and, and your passion and your Advocacy for health is, it's just oh, so clear. So thank you so much. So your time.

Robert Lustig (3h 25m 59s):
No, I wanna, I wanna thank you. And the reason I wanna thank you is first of all, you know, inviting me. That's nice, you know, that's good. But the reason is because people need to understand science. I am completely in agreement with you. The public needs to understand science. They listen to you because you, number one, provide the science. And number two, you don't talk down to them. You treat them as equals. And that is truly remarkable. And so I want to thank you for your service.

Andrew Huberman (3h 26m 31s):
Well, you're most welcome. It's a labor of love. And I think it was the great Max d Brook that said, when teaching assume zero knowledge and infinite intelligence, and I do believe that humans are infinitely intelligent. Although sometimes as a whole we mask it, people deserve the the knowledge. So thank you so much for sharing that knowledge today and let's absolutely have you back.

Robert Lustig (3h 26m 53s):
My pleasure. Thank you.

Andrew Huberman (3h 26m 55s):
Thank you for joining me for today's discussion with Dr. Robert Lustig about nutrition and How Sugar impacts the health of our brain and body. To learn more about Dr. Lustig's work and to find links to the many books that he's written on this and other topics, please see the show note captions. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on both Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for me or comments about the podcast or guests you'd like me to consider on the Huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comment section on YouTube. I do read all the comments. Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode.

Andrew Huberman (3h 27m 38s):
That's the best way to support this podcast. Not so much on today's episode, but on many previous episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them for things like improving sleep, for hormone support, and for improving focus. To learn more about the supplements discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast, go to live Momentous spelled OUS. So live Momentous dot com slash Huberman. If you're not already following me on Social Media, I am Huberman Lab on Instagram X, formerly called Twitter, LinkedIn, Facebook, and Threads. And at all of those places, I discuss science and science related tools, some of which overlaps with the content of the Huberman Lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from the content covered on the Huberman Lab podcast.

Andrew Huberman (3h 28m 22s):
So again, it's Huberman Lab on all Social Media channels. If you haven't already subscribed to our Neural Network Newsletter, our Neural Network Newsletter is a zero cost Newsletter that comes out every month. It includes podcast summaries as well as protocols in the form of short PDFs of maybe just one to three pages where I list out the specific protocols. For instance, for Improving dopamine functioning or for Improving your sleep or for deliberate cold exposure, deliberate heat exposure, or fitness protocols, and on and on, all of which are presented in brief fashion. Very direct, just the protocols listed out. Again, completely zero cost. To sign up, you simply go to Huberman Lab dot com, go to the menu function, scroll down to Newsletter and enter your email.

Andrew Huberman (3h 29m 4s):
and I should point out that we do not share your email with anybody. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion with Dr. Robert Lustig. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science.