0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman lab podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford school of medicine. Today. My guest is Jeff cavalier. Jeff cavalier holds a master of science in physical therapy and as a certified strength and conditioning specialist, he did his training at the university of Connecticut stores. One of the top five programs in the world in physical therapy and sports medicine. I discovered Jeff cavalier over 10 years ago from his online content. His online content includes information about how to train for strength, how to train for hypertrophy, which is muscle growth, how to train for endurance as well as how to rehabilitate injuries to avoid muscular imbalances, nutrition and supplementation.

0 (51s):
I've always found his content to be incredibly science-based incredibly clear, sometimes surprising and always incredibly actionable. It is therefore not surprising that he has one of the largest online platforms for fitness, nutrition, supplementation, and injury rehabilitation. Jeff has also worked with an enormous number of professional athletes and as served as head physical therapist and assistant strength coach for the New York Mets. Again, the content that Jeff cavalier has posted online has been so immensely useful to me over the years, that I was absolutely thrilled to get the chance to sit down with him and ask him about everything from how to train in terms of how to split up the body parts that you train across the week, how to integrate strength, training, and endurance training.

0 (1m 34s):
When to stretch, how to stretch. Indeed, we talked about nutrition. We talk a bit about supplementation. We talk about how to really avoid creating imbalances in muscle and in neural control over muscle. This is one thing that's really wonderful about Jeff is he really has an understanding of not just how muscles and bones and tendons and ligaments work together, but how the nervous system interfaces with those. We talked about the mental side of training, including when to bring specific concentration to the muscles that you're training. And when to think more about how to move weights through space and think more about the movements overall, I'm certain that you'll find the conversation that we held to be immensely useful and informative for your fitness practices and also for how you mentally approach fitness in general and how to set up a lifelong fitness practice.

0 (2m 20s):
One that will give you the strength that you desire. One that will give you the aesthetic results that you desire. One that will set you up for endurance and cardiovascular health. Basically an overall fitness program. I really feel this is where Jeff cavalier shines above and beyond. So many of the other PTs and fitness so-called influencers that are out there. Again, everything is grounded in science, everything is clear and everything is actionable. And while we do cover an enormous amount of information during today's episode, if you want to dive even deeper into that information, you can go to athlete next.com, where you'll find some of Jeff's programs. You can also find him at athlete X on YouTube. There, you will find videos for instance, like how to repair or heal from lower back pain.

0 (3m 2s):
Something that I actually followed directly long before I ever met. Jeff has over 32 million views. And that is not by accident is because the protocols there again are surprising and actionable. They relieved my back pain very quickly without surgery. So I'm immensely grateful for that content. And it extends into everything from again, hypertrophy, endurance and strength training and so on. Again, it's athlete next.com as the website athlete next on YouTube and also athlete next on Instagram,

Momentous (3m 29s):
the government lab podcast is proud to announce that we've partnered with momentous supplements. We've done that for several reasons. First of all, the quality of their supplements is exceedingly high. Second of all, we wanted to have a location where you could find all of the supplements discussed on the Huberman lab podcast in one easy to find place. You can now find that place at live momentous.com/huberman. In addition, momentous supplements, ship internationally, something that a lot of other supplement companies simply do not do. So that's terrific whether or not you live in the U S or you live abroad right now. Not all of the supplements that we discuss on the and lab podcast are listed, but that catalog of supplements is being expanded very rapidly and a good number of them that we've talked about. Some of the more prominent ones for sleep and focus and other aspects of mental and physical health are already there. Again, you can find them at live momentous.com/huberman.

0 (4m 17s):
Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public and keeping with that theme. I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

AG1 (4m 34s):
Our first sponsor is athletic greens now called one. I started taking ag one way back in 2012. So I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason that I started taking ag one and the reason I still take ag one twice a day is that it covers all of my foundational health needs for mental health, physical health and performance. As I mentioned earlier, it has vitamins and minerals that cover any deficiencies I might have in my diet. It also has probiotics and the probiotics are key for supporting the so-called gut microbiome, the gut microbiome, our trillions of little micro bacteria that live in our gut from our throat all the way down to the base of our gut, that support everything from our immune system to our hormone health, to the so-called gut-brain axis. That is our gut and our brain are in direct communication with one another in ways that support our mood, our ability to think, and overall brain health. If you'd like to try athletic greens, you can go to athletic greens.com/huberman to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs, which make it very easy to mix up athletic greens while you're on the road. And they'll give you a year supply of vitamin D three K2, vitamin D three and K2 are essential for an enormous number of aspects of your mental health, physical health and performance by impacting things like hormone regulation, calcium regulation, and cardiovascular health. Again, go to athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim that special offer

Eight Sleep (5m 54s):
today's episode is also brought to us by eight sleep. Eight sleep makes smart covers with heating and sleep tracking and importantly cooling capacity. I've taught many times before on this podcast on another podcast about the close relationship between temperature and sleep, that is your body temperature has to drop by about one to three degrees in order to fall asleep and waking up involves heating up of your body by about one to three degrees. Now, some people run cold during the night. They need to heat their sleeping environment. Other people run too hot during the night. I'm one such person. I tend to wake up in the middle of the night. If I get warm at all with eight sleep, I'm able to cool my sleeping environment in a very precise way, even so precise that I can control the temperature at the beginning, middle and end of the night so that I fall asleep easily, stay deeply asleep and wake up feeling better than I've ever felt before the pod pro cover by eight sleep is their most advanced solution on the market for thermal regulation. It pairs dynamic, cooling and heating with biometric tracking. If you want to use that also as this nice feature, that it will vibrate in the morning to wake you up. I rather like that vibration feature too. You can add the cover to any mattress and start sleeping as cool as 55 degrees Fahrenheit, or as hot as 110 degrees Fahrenheit. So again, it can be customized to your sleep needs. If you want to try eight sleep, you can go to eight sleep.com/huberman and check out the pro pod cover and save $150 at checkout. The currently shipped within the USA, Canada and the United Kingdom. Again, that's eight sleep.com/huberman to save $150 at checkout

ROKA (7m 21s):
today's episode is also brought to us by Roca. Rocha makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are the absolute highest quality. The company was founded by two All-American swimmers from Stanford and everything about Roca, eyeglasses and sunglasses is made with performance in mind that said the aesthetics of Roca, eyeglasses and sunglasses is superb. I've spent a lifetime working on the biology of the visual system. And I can tell you that your visual system has to contend with an enormous number of challenges in order to be able to see clearly Roca understands this and has developed their eyeglasses and sunglasses in a manner of such that when you move from say a shady area to a brightly lit area, or when you were in different lit environments indoors, you can always see with crystal clarity and they won't slip off. If you sweat. In fact, they were originally designed for exercise. You can wear them while running or cycling, but they have a terrific aesthetic. So unlike a lot of so-called performance or exercise glasses that are out there that make people, frankly look like cyborgs. In my opinion, Roca, eyeglasses, and sunglasses look terrific. You'd be proud to wear them to work or out to dinner, or when you exercise, if you want to try Roca glasses, you can go to roca.com that's R O k.com and enter the code Huberman to save 20% off on your first order. Again, that's Rocha, R O K a.com and enter the code Huberman at checkout.

0 (8m 35s):
And now for my discussion with Jeff cavalier, Jeff, such a pleasure for me to have you here. I'm glad to be here. It's amazing. I'm a longtime consumer of your content. I've learned a tremendous amount about fitness, both in the weight room, cardio nutrition, things that I've applied for over a decade. So for me, this is particularly meaningful. And my goal here is really to ask a bunch of questions to which I'm interested in the answers, but also for which I know the audience is really curious about. So one of your mantras is, you know, if you want to look like an athlete, train like an athlete, and I think that's something really special that sets aside what you do from what a lot of other very well qualified people do.

0 (9m 22s):
And in terms of the use of weights and resistance, whether or not it's body weight or weights in the gym or pulleys versus cardio, you know, in terms of overall health, aesthetics, and athleticism, is there a way that you could point to, you know, the idea that maybe people should be doing, you know, 50% resistance training and 50% cardio, maybe it's 70, 30, maybe it's 30, 70, and, and here I'm talking about the typical person who would like to maintain, or maybe even add some muscle mass, probably in particular areas for most people, as opposed to just overall mass. Although we'll talk about that later, and people want to maintain a relatively low body fat percentage and be in good cardiovascular health.

0 (10m 4s):
What's the sort of contour of a basic program that anybody could think about as a starting place.

2 (10m 11s):
I think he's like a 60 40 split, which would be leaning towards a weight training, you know, strengthened and, and then either the conditioning aspect be about 40%. So if you look at it over a course of a training week, I mean, five days in a gym would be a great passing, obviously not in the gym, it could be done at home, but three days straight training, Monday, Wednesday, Friday conditioning, Tuesday, Thursday, you know, two days, it's a, it's a pretty easy roundabout way to split that up, of course, depending upon training goals. And as you said, the aesthetic goals like that will shift dramatically. But if you want to see the benefits of both, that's probably the, the effect of dose restraint training and the effect of dose for conditioning at the bare minimum level, again, being a much better performer and conditioning wise, you're gonna wanna do more than that.

0 (10m 55s):
And in terms of the duration of those workouts, what's your suggestion. I I've been weight training for about 30 years running for about 30 years and mainly for health and have found that if I work hard in the gym or at resistance training for more than 60 minutes or so, it's very hard for me to recover. I start getting colds. I start getting weaker from workout to workout, but amazingly, at least to me, if I keep those workouts to about 10 minutes, 10 minutes of warmup and 55 minutes or so of really hard work for resistance training. And I keep the cardiovascular work to about 30 to 45 minutes, I feel great. And I seem to make some progress at least someplace in the workout from workout to workout.

2 (11m 40s):
Yeah. I mean, it's, those are good numbers. Cause those are the kind of numbers that we usually preach. We try to keep our workouts to an hour or less if possible. Now, depending upon the split that you're following, if you're on a total body split, there's just going to be more that has to be done in a given amount of time. That, and again, if you're training primarily for strength that could prolong the workout cause a longer rest times in between sets, but in general, when you're not focused on that one aspect, but the overall health picture, then you can get the job done in under an under an hour. And again, I always say on top of it, if you want to look like an athlete train, like an athlete is you can either train long or you can train hard, but you can't do both. And I really believe that the focus for me, I have a busy life. I have a lot of other things that I do believe it or not.

2 (12m 22s):
And it's like, I want to go hard and I want to go get out. And I find that my body also responds to that. I think a lot of guys bodies respond to that. And particularly as you start to get older, I think it's the, it's the length of the workout that actually causes more problems than the intensity of what you're doing. Particularly if you're warmed up properly. Like you said, I have found personally that my warmup has had to become more of an integral part of my, my workout than it ever has before. I never, I could get in the gym when I was 20 and I'm going right over, I'm doing the one set, two sets I'm in, I'm ready to go. You know, and I never do another workout warmup set for any of the other exercises I do the rest of the day. That's not, that's not true anymore.

2 (13m 2s):
You know, and I've found that as long as I'm willing to sort of give myself a little bit of a warmup, the intensity is not what bothers me. You know, I'm, I'm, I'm very much in control of the weights that I use and it doesn't bother me. But if I start to go pretty long, I start to feel achy or I start to have problems. So again, depending upon age that also plays a factor in the length. But again, I think everybody can achieve on a standard program can achieve the results that they want within an hour

0 (13m 28s):
In terms of splits, you mentioned splits. And so for those who aren't familiar with this term splits, it's really a, which body parts are you training on which days it seems like almost everybody follows a weekly workout schedule. Although the body of course doesn't care about the week, right? There's no reason to think that once every seven days or twice, every seven days make sense physiologically. It's just the bite doesn't work though, but that's the way life is structured. I've seen you discuss, you know, three days a week, whole body workouts. I've heard of splits like pushing one day, pulling another day legs and other day a day off repeat. I mean, there's so many variations on this. What are some general themes that we can throw out there?

0 (14m 8s):
And in order to avoid the huge matrix of possibilities, you have some wonderful content that points those. And we will cap in our caption show notes. We'll link out to some of those that are different ways to design splits. But in terms of giving people a logic of how to think about splitting up body parts, what's governing the split, what are the rules and the logic that dictate a split

2 (14m 30s):
For me, the first rule is will you stick to it? Right? Like if you, cause there are a split, I don't, I don't particularly like full body splits. I was actually talking to Jesse about that the other day. Like I don't necessarily like to have to train everything now, of course the volumes will come down per muscle group. But if you don't like to do that and you actually don't look forward to your workout because you're dreading having to do everything and feeling maybe too fatigue by the time your workouts over, or the fact that those generally do take a little bit longer and don't fit into your schedule. I don't care how effective the split is. A split not done is not effective. So you need to find one that fit. So maybe you go into an alternative option, like a, a push pull legs, like you mentioned, and that could be done either one cycle through the week on a Monday, Wednesday, Friday split, or it could be twice in a week.

2 (15m 17s):
So you're actually training six times, you know, where, where you repeat it, you know, pull, push legs, pull, push legs, or, or, you know, you know, however you want to do it with either a day off in between the three days or at the end of the six days. And again, that actually impacts your schedule. I broken that down before where it's, you know, if you put it in between the three days is good because you're giving yourself an extra rest day in between, but it starts to shift that day off every week, as we wrap around for those guys that were choosing that seven day schedule at a convenience in our heads, you know, it starts to mess with that off day. So others like to just keep it predictably, let's say on a Sunday and train six days in a row, but that's, but that's a better way to maybe group similar muscle actions together, which I think I, I definitely prefer that because if I'm going to be training, you know, pulling movements, at least there's a synergy between them.

2 (16m 7s):
And I feel like I'm looking to achieve one goal that day. And then, I mean, quite honestly, you can go back to the bro split days and there's those still work effectively. There's a reason why they worked in the past. I, I think that science shows that there are smarter ways to do them these days. Like you can, you can come back and hit a related muscle. So you could do, let's say biceps on one day and then come back two days later and do back realizing again, synergy between the, the exercises there, your biceps are going to get re stimulated again, so you can figure out ways to make that work. But the thing that I think is, is effective, there is that tends to be one of the ones that people liked the most because they can go in, they get their pump.

2 (16m 48s):
They feel good that it's, it's pretty solely focused on one muscle group.

0 (16m 52s):
Is that the definition of a bro split one, one

2 (16m 55s):
Muscle group of day?

0 (16m 55s):
Yeah, I see. So it's very much geared towards strengthened aesthetics, really maximizing

2 (17m 0s):
Probably probably more, more aesthetics than strengths. Yeah. Yeah. You're

0 (17m 3s):
Just gonna beat the bro the bro name. Right.

2 (17m 6s):
But again, like, you know, in here I am a science guy and I can appreciate the benefits of a bro split, especially cause again, like what to, what to what end that you know, who, whose, whose goal are we, are we trying to achieve here? Theirs are ours. You know, like, I mean, if, if I'm applying my standards and my goals, or even like athletic ideals, but they just want to get in shape, then it's perfectly fine to do, to do a bro split in that instance, if you're sticking to it again, and you're seeing the results that you want to see from it, but they're able to, you know, really keep their focus on one muscle. They get to focus on, you know, like look, a lot of times people struggle with the, the way an exercise feels until their second or third set.

2 (17m 46s):
Like they don't have that proprioceptive ability to kind of lock in on an exercise. So spending a few, not only sets in the same exercise, but then doing another exercise with the same muscle group helps them to dial in a little bit better and get more out of their training.

0 (17m 59s):
Yeah. That raises a really interesting, and I think important question early on when I started resistance training, which was when I was 16 in high school, I got in touch with and I was learning from Mike mincer. Right. And Mike was very helpful, very, very helpful. We got to be friendly and yeah.

2 (18m 17s):
And I just read his book. I didn't get a chance to find some jealous.

0 (18m 20s):
I back then, no internet. I, you know, I paid by Western union type thing to send him some money

2 (18m 26s):
For the back of the medicine.

0 (18m 27s):
And then he got on the phone with me and my mother at the time was like, why is this grown man all in the house? And he gave me a, a very straightforward split, which was shoulders and arms one day he had to be taking two days off and then training legs and then two days off and then chest him back, et cetera.

2 (18m 41s):
And I, and that's a variation of a broad split to where you're sort of breaking them down that way, chest and back or chest and buys, you know?

0 (18m 48s):
And he worked very well for me. I probably would have because of my age, I think. And because there was the, I was untrained, I think it largely untrained. I think it would have grown on, on many different programs, but it worked very well for me. I eventually just, just made that in every other day. Things, shoulders, arms day off legs, day or two off. Cause if you hit legs, right, at least for me, I'm not training the next day. And then I'm not doing much of anything athletic the next day and chest back and repeat and so on. And the reason I found that helpful is I almost always recovered between workouts the six day a week program of push pull legs, push, pull legs. To me seems excruciating from two standpoints. One is at least with my recovery abilities or lack of recovery abilities.

0 (19m 31s):
I can't imagine coming back feeling fresh. And the other one is if I, if I'm in the gym more than four days a week, I really start to fatigue it about the whole psychological experience of it. Whereas if I'm in there three or four days a week, in other words, if I put a day off in between each workout, I really want to be there. And I get in there with, with a lot of fire and I'm also doing other things on the off days. So I think that I love that you mentioned that the split that you'll stick to and that you can bring the intensity too, because I think that that's really important. I sometimes hear about two-day training. I've done two a day training twice in my lifetime, both times I got sick two days later, that's correlation, not causation, but is there ever an instance where two a day weight training makes sense for the non drug assisted typical recovery ability person?

2 (20m 22s):
I think it makes sense in some scenarios, but it doesn't make sense practically for a lot of people's schedules. So like if you could break down, let's say you were going to do even, you know, some version of it, of a total body session, or maybe like you're going to do an upper lower split, right? You could do an upper workout and do the anterior chain or the pushing portion of that in one session and then come back and do the pulling session later on at night, if you had the opportunity to the thing that you benefit from there as the freshness of focus, again, like something in my head SAC is sacrificed. By the time you get towards the latter half of whatever workout you're in to the same point you made before.

2 (21m 3s):
Like when you start to approach that 50 minutes an hour, you know, mark, you are either losing focus, you're losing energy, you're losing contractile ability. You're losing something. And if you're relegating, whatever it is, the polling portion of that to the end of that workout, something suffers. So, okay, in that, if they realize that's happening, then maybe you switch them up. The next time you do the workout where the pulling portion of the upper workout goes first, and then the pushing goes later. So you're at least not just continuing that cycle, but at the same time, if you are able to kind of split them up, you get a chance to kind of take a break. You can have that freshness of focus again, and you could actually get a better effort in cause again, I think effort drives the results. So if the effort is not compromised and you should be able to do that, but systemically is that a problem?

2 (21m 47s):
And I think that it is a problem for a lot of people. It's just hard to, it's hard to read the engine up a lot of times, you know, in the day, you know, you warm that thing up once it's like that car in the winter, you get it going once. You're lucky, okay, now you gotta drive it the rest of the day, but you know, it, you've put it in the garage and try to start the next day. It's a problem. So, you know, young people can get away with a lot more than, than older people could, you know?

0 (22m 9s):
Well, I've never had a strong recovery quotient, but if I stick to this one day off in between every once in a while, two days in a row training, maybe because I have to travel and I want to make sure I get all the workouts in kind of thing, I seem to be okay. I like your example of a warming up the car spoken like a true east coast east coast, or those of us were on the west coast. So I took a moment there, but I, we focused on the east coast and the Midwest, get it. And certainly from, from Europe in terms of the mixing up of cardiovascular training and resistance training, same day, different day, which one should come first, which one could, should come second, if one main goals, again, everyone listening has different goals are most people would like to either maintain or gain some muscle.

0 (22m 55s):
I don't know many people that want to lose muscle and maintain or gain some muscle. Usually in specific locations on their body, most people would like to be a bit leaner or a lot leaner. There are a few people out there that are either naturally lean or don't want, or actually just want to gain weight. But assuming that people want to get lean or put on some muscle or maintain muscle and want to have a healthy heart and a healthy brain, which basically requires a healthy cardiovascular system, how would you incorporate the cardiovascular work into the overall weekly regimen?

2 (23m 24s):
So again, I think that the, you know, the bare minimum was probably twice a week in terms of cardiovascular, if you want to have some semblance of cardiovascular conditioning, but I think most people who actually need it more or want to pursue it more than that are going to need more time to do that. So at some point it can't just be relegated to a day off or a day off from the, from the weight training workouts. So at some point it has to occur on the same day, you know, and in that case, I just like to put it, if that is your, not your primary goal, but you're looking more for the, just the overall picture, you know, the aesthetics you mentioned putting muscle on in certain areas, then I would put it at the end of the workout cause you don't want to in any way compromise the weight training workout.

2 (24m 4s):
And as we've sort of referenced a couple of times already, the, the intensity of those workouts is important and we know there's a strength component to those workouts also that is going to, you know, be a helpful stimulus for growth. So the conditioning, the cardio that stuff dumped prior to any training, you know, strength, training, workout is likely going to impair your ability to perform at your best. So unless it's just on for a quick little warmup in the beginning, but then it's not sustained long enough really to be a benefit for cardiovascular conditioning. So I just like to, you know, put that at the end, realizing that even if my effort level is lower, my output is lower.

2 (24m 44s):
If it's still placing a demand on my cardiac output to get that conditioning effect, because I'm fatigued, it still has a demand of my cardiac output. So it's still achieving its goal, but it didn't interfere with my main goal of being able to increase my performance in the gym.

0 (24m 59s):
And in terms of the form of cardiovascular training, I've seen you do a number of, I have to say very impressive high intensity interval type work, so Berbee type work or push-ups with, you know, with crunches mixed into them any way people can see your videos too. I didn't describe those in the best way, but rather than on the treadmill or out jogging for 30, 45 minutes, is that because you prefer higher intensity, higher heart rate type training, or is it because you live in cold Connecticut and you don't want to be out jogging on the roads in the middle of the winter?

2 (25m 35s):
I think all of the above, I mean, those are factors from a personal level, but I think that if, if you are, if we could blend function across these realms and not have such a delineation between, this is my way of training and this is my conditioning, but figure out a way to, to blend them together. I always think that you've got, you've got a better opportunity to get that more well-rounded result. And I like to kind of mix up that straight conditioning work and also some of the footwork, you know, drills like we have, we, we have some high expectations for guys that come into our programs. I'd like to just do some footwork drills,

0 (26m 12s):
They ladder so

2 (26m 12s):
Like ladders or line drills or something. And you know, what happens, people become intrigued and interested in, like I never, I haven't tried this since high school, you know, and they become interested in just the challenge of it. And then as we become almost distracted by the challenge, we're now finding ourselves conditioning, you know, and, and I always think that's an important part that sometimes you've got to draw people in to get to show them what they might be interested in and from the output or the effect of it. I just think that when you're able to blend some, some, you know, still maintain some of strength training into the exercise. So as you mentioned, let's say I'm doing some kind of a pushup or a burpee. I mean, there is, there is a, an anaerobic component to that that is going to be helpful that then rather than just walking or just jogging, not just not to say that that isn't an effective means for strict cardiac conditioning.

2 (27m 4s):
It's, it's one of the ways that we've had for centuries, you know, to do it. But I just think that if we can blend it, then it becomes maybe a little bit more interesting and you get some of those crossover benefits and it doesn't become so segmented in terms of what we're trying to do.

0 (27m 18s):
I love the idea of bringing some mental challenge and some desire to have improve a skill while conditioning. That's not something that I've thought of before and it, and it's simply because I've overlooked it, but it makes sense because my sister who's reasonably fit. Although I'm always trying to get her to do a bit more, she always asks me, you know, what should I take? And I'm an, I believer in supplements. So for certain people in certain instances, but I keep telling her, you know, it's, the behaviors are going to end. Nutrition are going to have the greatest outsize positive effect. And she loves things like dance classes and things, or kickboxing, these kinds of things, which so it makes sense that if you can hook somebody on the conditioning aspect or the skill aspect, and kind of trick them into doing more cardio, so to speak that that's terrific.

0 (28m 1s):
Also the neuroscientist in me just has to say, forgive me that anytime you're engaging the, you know, the two sets of motor neurons, the ones in your brain, the upper motor neurons and the ones in your spinal cord, anytime you're engaging those upper motor neurons, which are for deliberate a well controlled action, you're doing a great thing for your brain in terms of brain longevity. So I'm now I need to incorporate some actual skills into my training. Going back to weight training a bit, one of the most important things I learned from you. So over the years was that when training to increase muscle size to really think, not so much about moving weights, but more about challenging muscles.

0 (28m 42s):
I also heard this from my friend, Ben <inaudible>, who's a very well competition. He was a bodybuilder. Now he's into other aspects of fitness, teaches fitness, but don't move weight to challenge muscles unless you're trying to power lift or something of that sort, which I'm not immensely helpful. But the other thing that I learned from you that combined with that was this idea that certain muscles will grow better and get stronger much more easily. Maybe even we'll recover better because of our ability to contract them really hard. And this what I call the cavalier test, which is at least if I could paraphrase the, so for instance, if I can, it's always the bicep, isn't it let's use this, let's use the calf or the bicep.

0 (29m 25s):
If you can, if you can flex your bicep to the point where it hurts a little bit, like it almost feels like a cramp or a cramp where you can flex your calf to the point where it really cramps up a little, it almost feels like it's nodding up. That's a pretty good indication that you're going to be able to stimulate that muscle well load if you're doing the movement properly. Right. And that's the feeling to actually aim for each repetition, maybe even throughout the repetition for me, this completely transformed my results. And this was, I think it maybe five, six years ago that I first heard this from you body parts. That for me, lagged behind that, I thought maybe genetically weren't going to work for me immediately just started growing, right? And I was getting stronger and stronger.

0 (30m 6s):
And I thought this is really something so much so that I've dedicated a portion of my research along with, in collaboration with another group to try and understand what's happening in these upper motor neurons in the brain that can engage the muscles even more. And that it's not just about progressive overload or putting a pump into the muscle that it's really, this mind muscle connection is a real thing when it comes to predicting results and that you can get better at it. So forgive me for paraphrasing your incredible content around this, but it made a tremendous difference for me and a number of other people that have passed that along too. But what can you, first of all, how did you arrive at that? Because we hear about the mind muscle connection, but I really heard it first from you.

0 (30m 49s):
How did you arrive at this kind of cramp test, the cavalier test as I'll call it? It's always weird when people name things after themselves in science, but other scientists can name things. So there is now officially the cavalier test is whether or not you can cramp the muscle in the absence of load, just flexing it to the point where it hurts a little bit. That would be a good indication that you could grow that muscle. Well. So how did you come up with this?

2 (31m 11s):
I mean, it just, honestly, it's something that, that made sense to me because during my workouts, even as a, as a young kid, just starting out, like, I always wanted to know what is it working? You know, a lot of people ask that question more so than you think, like, what is this supposed to work and a lot. And, and I don't know if you've ever noticed, but like when people ask that question, if they're, if they're being trained by a trainer and the trainer saying, well, just do this, do this exercise and they'll show you how to do it, but then they'll say, but what is it supposed to wear? Where am I supposed to feel this right. People did it just inherently asked that question. A lot of people will. I was one of those that did that. And I asked that question now, because I knew what I was doing, but just because I don't know, I wanted to know what was supposed to be doing the work.

2 (31m 53s):
Once you do that. And you start to seek that out and say, okay, well, the bicep is what's supposed to be doing the work. Then I want to make sure the biceps doing the work. Right. So then I would just sort of really like tweak the movement to make it do more work or feel more uncomfortable, or get a stronger contraction, knowing if that's supposed to do the job. It wasn't until PT school that, you know, learning, oh, well, you know, flection of the elbow is the brachialis and the bias and the bias is responsible for supernatural. Like you start to, I learned other components of it, but all I wanted to know was to bring my arm up in a curl, what is supposed to do the job. So I would seek out ways to make that happen better. And when I was able to do that, I could feel the stronger contraction.

2 (32m 34s):
And I just, I dunno, I just, I was no visionary. I just felt like I knew that that was going to be better for me. If the muscle I was trying to grow was being stressed more effectively. So when I was attempting to do this across different exercises, I would notice that what I could do potentially on a curl when my arm is up, you know, where you asked me to flex my bicep, that position I couldn't do. If I was, you know, doing a concentration girl or I couldn't carry over to a cable curl, and that shouldn't really change, right? Because the function is still largely the same. There's still elbow flection. There's still supervision. You're like, why am I not able to do it there? And that's where it sort of clued into me that like your mind muscle connection on not just your mind with one muscle, but on every exercise matters.

2 (33m 23s):
And it varies from exercise to exercise. And even if you don't gain muscle size from doing that, although I think it's very hard not to, especially for, you're not used to doing that. There there's a term I like to call muscularity, you know, which is a difference, right? It's the level of sort of resting tone in the muscle that improves dramatically. You know, if you can learn how to just start to engage that muscle better, the muscularity that the resting tone of that muscle is harder. It's more, it's more at a tension. It's just more, it's, it's more alive, you know, and that's all driven from being able to connect better neurologically with the muscle that you, that you're trying to train. I've talked about a lot.

2 (34m 3s):
Inefficiency is really what you're trying to seek in movements. When you're trying to create hypertrophy, when Goldwind strength is your goal efficiency of the movement is what you're looking for. You're looking to have muscles tie together and work well efficiently the chest, the shoulders, the triceps, to get a bar off of your chest during the bench press. You're not looking to make it a very inefficient, you know, leverages for your chest to try to grow your chest and a bench press. You're trying to let the whole package come together for a greater output. But when you're trying to go and create muscle hypertrophy, or even this muscularity that talk about, you need to seek ways to make it feel more uncomfortable, right? If you don't feel the discomfort, then you're doing something wrong.

2 (34m 43s):
And I struggled to this day on certain muscle groups to still do that, even knowing what I'm trying to work and knowing what the goal of everything I'm preaching here, it's very difficult for some muscles and for certain people to do this on certain muscles. But as you mentioned, practice does help. And the more you become, you know, consistent and deliberate with what you're trying to do, the more of an, of a result you actually get.

0 (35m 6s):
It's a couple of really poor boys. I'd like to, to delve into further. First of all, my hunch was always that the muscle groups that grew easy most easily and that I could contract hardest without any, the first time I did the cavalier test got 10 out of 10, we give it a 10 out of 10 scale. You know, it could just like isolate those muscles, cinch them, grow them easily. I mean, there's certain wide parts. I don't want to say which ones, cause it doesn't really matter that I always felt like if I just did pushups, they would grow. And these muscles are far away from any of the muscles are supposed to be involved in pushups. Even though I like to think I'm doing pushups correctly. You'll tell me if I'm, if I'm not. But some of that I think is genetic.

0 (35m 46s):
And some of that has to do with the sports that I played when I was younger. So I swam, I played soccer, I skateboard. And then later I boxed. And so the muscles involved in those sports were always very easy to engage later when I went into the gym. Yeah. So I guess perhaps a call to parents, you know, having kids do a lot of dynamic activity, seems like it might be a good idea. The other thing is this issue of muscularity. I am so glad you brought that up. There are have to imagine a large number of listeners who don't want to get bigger. They don't want to take up a larger clothing size. They don't want to take up more space. In fact, some of them would like to take up less space, but they, they want that quality that you're describing, which is, you know, oftentimes you hear it more in the here I'm stereotyping a bit, but I, with kindness, you know, you hear from women who are in weight training to say, I don't want to get big often.

0 (36m 39s):
Sometimes they do, but they're most, most women that I've helped weight train. We're talking about weight, trying to say, I don't want to get back. I want to get toned. And I think what they're referring to is this quality that of muscularity percent, this idea that at, at resting or at close to rest, or anytime someone reaches out and grabs a glass that, that the muscles almost look like they're kind of twitching underneath the skin. And yet it's not saran wrap skin anatomy chart type skin, right? So this thing of muscularity, or, or resting tone, you know, has a physiological basis. I think it's how readily the nerves are communicating with the muscles. And you're saying that by learning to engage the muscles more actively, the resting tone or muscularity can improve. Have you seen that both in men and women, and do you think this is something that takes upkeep maintenance or that you, you know, once you develop that in a muscle, you can just kind of let it coast.

2 (37m 30s):
So I think like everything at key, it requires upkeep, you know, user lose it. I do believe firmly, but like, I think that it's the, the development of the connection going to be harder than the maintenance of the connection. As I said, I still struggled to this day for myself with, you know, unnamed muscle groups, you know, also, you know, but like, you know, there's just, there's, there's just certain areas that are harder for your brain for whatever reason to just develop that, that connection at that type of level to create trait that extra strong contraction. But I think that it with proper dedication and focus, and then I'll go right out and say, you know, calves is one of the areas that I don't, I don't necessarily have a great connection with.

2 (38m 10s):
And I also obviously must not care so much because I don't put in the time and effort to create that connection as I could. So I think what might happen is, you know, yeah, there could be a struggle there, but then with, with struggle comes disinterest and you're like, well, screw it. I'm, I'm, I'm a, I'm a calf not, and I'm not going to do anything about it. You know? So I think if you put the required effort in, and the time and repetitions that you will develop that, and once you do develop it, it's going to stick around a lot longer than it would had you not invested any time into it at all, you know, not requiring as much of that. But I mean, I, I don't know, like, you know, you mentioned now when you train, it's like, you're, you're just, this is just part of how you train now.

2 (38m 50s):
Like you're going hard. You're trying to, you know, really fortunately contract, you're not just moving the weight. I say from point a to point B, but you're like trying to contract the weight through that range. That is a mindset that I try to put into whatever they I'm doing. Unless of course I'm focused on a strength exercise where I'm just trying to lift a greater amount and use all the muscles together. But when the goal is inefficiency for hypertrophy, I am really trying to create that contraction. And it's just part of my training. So I guess for consistency sake, as long as I'm training is happening, you know, as if I, if I get away from training that is not happening at all, but, you know, even there, I probably another embarrassing admission probably, you know, we'll mindfully do it throughout the day, even with no weight in my head, you know, and certain muscle groups, whether it be my abs or my arm or my shoulders or something, I'm doing something just to sort of engage the muscles.

2 (39m 43s):
And I do think that some of that sorta inane practice actually helps. By the time you go back into the gym, you just kinda keep that you keep that, that, that connection going

0 (39m 52s):
Well. It certainly obeys all the rules of neuro-plasticity, you know, the, the fire together wire together mantra, which is the words of my colleague, Carla Shatz hold true for all aspects of neural function, including nerve to muscle. So these flexing throughout the day, or the, the deliberate isolation of, of contracting a muscle throughout the day is without question engaging neuro-plasticity. And if you were to do fewer of those reputations, you're going to get less engagement of the nerve to muscle connection. I can say this with, with, with a smile and, and with confidence, because one of the first things, all neuroscience students learn is about the neuromuscular junction. Cause it's, it's a really simple example of where the more times the nerve fires and gets the muscle to contract the stronger that connection to get receptors are brought there and et cetera, et cetera.

0 (40m 35s):
There's a whole bunch of mechanisms for the topic of another podcast, but basically that practice throughout the day is makes total sense and works.

2 (40m 46s):
Yeah, there was no, there believe me, there's no science behind that in terms of, you know, the application of it, you do it when you catch yourself doing it, you know, kind of time, you know, but it is definitely something that's easily done discreetly and, you know, you, you wind up doing, I actually, I think in a, in a recent video, when I, I, I did talk about growing your arms by just improve, you know, improving the connection. Not that that connection itself is applying any load or, or, you know, resistance that significant to create overload for growth. But as the development of that connection, that I then take back with me into the gym at a more effective level that takes every exercise I do there and makes it more effective.

0 (41m 22s):
I'd say sharpening the blade, so to speak. Yeah. Certainly obeys the laws of, of, of nerve to muscle physiology. One to just touch on a couple of things. If the goal is to challenge muscles, and one is dividing their body into, let's say, you know, three or four day a week split, or so, or maybe up to six, how do you know when a muscle is really ready to be challenged? Again, I've heard, okay. Every 48 hours is, you know, protein synthesis increases and then we'll get into this and then it drops off. But frankly, if I train my legs hard, I can get stronger from workout to workout, or at least better in some way, work out to work out a leg, workout to a leg, workout, training them once every five to eight days.

0 (42m 9s):
If I train them more often, I get worse. So whatever that 48 hour to 72 hour thing is somehow my legs don't obey that, but you know, or maybe something else is wrong with me, but I'm sure there are many things else wrong with me, but how do you assess recovery at the local level, meaning at the level of the muscles. So we'll talk about soreness and getting better, stronger, more repetitions, et cetera. And then at the systemic level, the level of the nervous system, and I'd love for you to tell us about the, the tool that, again, I learned from you, which is actually using a physical scale, because it turns out this is that it will let you tell what the tool is, but that tool is also actively being used for assessing cognitive decline and cognitive maintenance and cognitive function in people with Alzheimer's and dementia

2 (42m 58s):
Makes total sense, makes total sense. I all right. So regarding the, the, the first part of the question, like, you know, how do you, how would you kind of dictate when a muscle's recovered? So I do think that what you're experiencing is totally real that different muscles recover at different rates. And I've always been so fascinated by this concept. I've talked about internally with my, with my team, but like, I feel like what we really need the holy grail to, to training is going to be when we're able to crack the code on an individual basis when a muscle is recovered and that is going to dictate its training schedule.

2 (43m 38s):
And the fact that you might have a bicep that could be trained, you know, via, via pulling workout of regular bias, if dedicated workout, forget the split at the moment, you might have a bicep that's able to be trained, that can be trained again the next day, you know, and then the next day, and then maybe you need a day off after that. But like, you know, in that, that can vary from person to person, for sure. And it can vary from muscle to muscle in that person over the course of time, as you mentioned, cause the systemic recovery is going to impact all those muscles anyway, but let's say you're systemically, recovering every muscle itself is going to have, you know, a recovery rate. And I think what's fascinating is that when you talked about before we like to train in this week, or we have a, like the way our mind looks at training,

0 (44m 22s):
Well,

2 (44m 23s):
If that was the case with the biceps, that bicep is a slave to the rest of your training split, you know, where it's like, well, why does it have to be also at the end of every eighth day or, you know, or whatever, when it might respond better to something much more frequently and your legs are also being thrown into that mix. There's a Mike Menser concept where he's like, you know, training, you know, one set and be done for 14 days. I mean, you know, there's, there's, there's such variability between muscle groups and you're, you're linking them all together. I think that coming back and using muscle soreness as a guideline for that is, is one of the only tools we have in terms of the local level.

2 (45m 5s):
You know, we don't really have, you know, being able to measure, let's say a CPK levels inside of a muscle would be amazing, you know, at a, at a local level to see how, how recovered that muscle is, but that becomes fairly invasive. At least to my knowledge, it becomes fairly invasive. So what are our tools? I mean, I think that at the basic level, that's the one that most people can relate to and easily identify and then use that as a guideline. And if you're training, when you're really sore is probably not a great idea. And it's probably a good indication that that muscle is not recovered, but at least hearing what you and I are saying here might be a comfort to the person to say, yeah, it is possible that it's not recovered just because 48 hours is the recommendation. And just because research points to muscle protein synthesis needing a restimulation, well, maybe not, maybe you're not necessarily there yet.

2 (45m 50s):
You're in that, for that muscle. You're not there yet. So it was all really interesting stuff. But as far as the, the, the systemic, you know, recovery, I think there's a lot of ways to be know, people talk about resting heart rate measured in the morning, all different kinds of, of, you know, core temperature and things like that that might become altered in a state of non recovery. But grip strength is very, very much tied to performance and recovery. And when I was at the Mets, we used to actually take grip strength, measurements as a baseline in spring training all the time. Now, obviously as a baseball player, you're gripping a bat, your pitcher you're gripping a ball like, you know, having good grip strength is important.

2 (46m 30s):
So if we've noticed somebody had a very weak grip, it's just a good focal point of a specialized training component for their

0 (46m 35s):
Focus every day with those

2 (46m 37s):
Guys. Now we would do it in spring training. We do sort of a baseline entry-level measurement. And then we would, we would measure it throughout the season, maybe once every two weeks or three weeks. And, and, and the idea there was to, to manage it, you know, manage, to recover, measure the recovery, but I just gave it away, you know, to, to, to do the, you know, to determine overall recovery, your grip strength is pretty highly correlated. So we have found that with one of those scales, those old-fashioned bathroom scales like a bed bath and beyond, or wherever you can get, which by the way, almost impossible. I believe Jesse and I were searching for the last scale to put in that video. And we almost couldn't find one because everything is like digital and everything. You know, it's like this, I'm looking at the old fashioned dial controls.

0 (47m 18s):
It's like an old Macintosh back there. So there's a huge market for them in old phones. I had one keep your phones now in 30 years, the lame phone now. Right.

2 (47m 28s):
So, you know, I wound up, you know, finding one and it's a great tool for just squeezing the, the, the, the scale with your hands and seeing what type of output you could get. And I think we, we all can relate to this when you just visualize, imagine the last time you were sick or that, or just try this, you know, the next time you wake up in the morning, when you first wake up in the morning, you're still groggy, try to squeeze your hand, try to make a fist as hard as you can. You're gonna sit there angry at your fist because it won't contract as hard as you know, it can, you don't have the ability to just create the output. And that is because in that state, you're still sleepy. You're still fatigued. You know, you're, you're not even awake the, you know, the, the whole level at this point.

2 (48m 13s):
Well, that is the, that is still an actual phenomenon that happens that, you know, a lack of recovery or a lack of wakefulness or whatever you want to say is going to lead to a decreased output there. So when you start to measure that on a daily basis, you can get a pretty good sense of where you're at. And I think when people start to see a drop-off of 10% or so, or even greater of their grip output, you really should skip the gym that day, because I don't think there's much you're going to do there. That's going to be that, that beneficial, even if it is the day, the train legs or whatever day it is.

0 (48m 47s):
I love this tool. It's simple, it's low cost. If you can find such a scale, I guess you could also find one of those grippers that, and you can do this in a very non quantitative way, but better would be a scale where you could actually measure how hard you can squeeze this thing. At a given time of day, it draws to mind, just a little neuroscience factory in the world of circadian neurobiology. One of the consistent findings is that in the middle of your nighttime, you know, the wake people up and they'll say, do this test right in the laboratory. They use a different apparatus, but it's essentially the same thing. And in the middle of the night, grip, strength is very, very low. And you know, mid-morning grip, strength is high. And as the body temperature goes up into the afternoon, grip, strength goes higher and higher and higher, and then it drops off.

0 (49m 28s):
There's a circadian rhythm and grip temperature. So you probably want to do this at more or less the same time each day if you're gonna use it. But I think it's brilliant. And in its simplicity and its directness to these upper motor neurons, cause that's really what it's assessing your ability. Again, it's about the ability to contract the muscles hard. If you can't do that, you're not going to get an effective workout.

2 (49m 46s):
Yeah. And they also, I mean, there certainly are more sophisticated tools to, as a, as a PT, you know, we have hand grip dynamometers, you know, we can, we can measure one side at a time too. You know, I'm not really, I'm, I'm getting a little bit blinded by the fact that both hands are squeezing into that scale and I don't get really our left right comparison. But even at that level that could give you a little bit more detailed, but that comes at a cost. So it's a pretty expensive devices. But if it's listen, if you were an athlete, you know, the 200, 300 bucks, it costs to have one of those would be well worth, you know, the add an investment. Yes.

0 (50m 16s):
And I'm sure some of our listeners are want one too. Cause there are a lot of tech geeks out there, not tech industry geeks, but people like, like tech gear, what's it called again?

2 (50m 25s):
Is it hand grip, dynamometer

0 (50m 27s):
And grip done or not done? Nominally set up set by calf with a, with a great east coast accent and by me in a terrible, a botched at a west coast version. Thank you. Well, we'll put that in the show notes also, you know, I think recovery is key. We always hear about sleep. You grow when you sleep and incidentally your brain, you stimulate learning when you're awake, obviously, but the reordering of neuroconnections happens in sleep. This is why sleep is the way to get smarter provided. You're also doing the learning part. This leaves the way to get stronger Friday. We're also doing the training part. You've had some really interest you've put out interesting content over the years in terms of even sleep position. One of the major changes that I made to my sleep behavior is to not have the sheets tucked in at the end of the night.

0 (51m 12s):
And I'll tell you, this had a profound impact on several things. First of all, my feet have always been the bane of my existence, broke them a bunch skateboarding. They, and I noticed when I'd run, I'd get shin splints. And then I started to notice that my feet sort of your, the PT, they were kind of floppy. And you know, as if I was pointing my toes slightly all the time at rest, if I was, and I realized that based on listening to you previously, that my sheets were wrapped tight, not hotel tight, right? One other thing in the hotels. And I started releasing the sheets at the end of the bed. And I also started doing some tibialis work front Shin's work, essentially changed everything. My back pain from running my shin splints disappeared, my posture improved.

0 (51m 54s):
Although I, my audience will tell me that it still needs improvement. They're always five or 10 people that wants to sit up straight. And I've actually had chairs sent our mailing address. Very nice chairs, right? So I'm trying, my I'm trying there, but this is fascinating, right? How the position that one sleeps in, I fortunately have never had any shoulder issues knock on wood, but maybe you could just talk, talk to us a little bit about sleep and sleep position for sake of waking position and movement is this I think is a very unique and very powerful way to think about sleep. This podcast has done a lot of episodes about keeping the room cool, getting sunlight in your eyes, et cetera, how to get into sleep. But you've talked about physically what positions might be better to sleep in.

0 (52m 37s):
So please, please enrich us. Yeah.

2 (52m 39s):
I mean, well, first of all, you know, some people's opinions of, of that type of content is that you, you know, you sleep in the position that's most comfortable, so you ensure that you're sleeping. Great. I understand that we all want to sleep. That's the goal when we put our head on the pillow is to actually fall asleep and wake up in the morning and not know what the hell happened, unless you had a dream. But you know, beyond that, there are certainly physical components to sleep. That that is why a lot of times people will wake up and say like that you can incur pretty serious injuries and sleep. People will wake up and have like a shoulder that did not bother them at all, be humming the next day, or even for weeks after, because of the one sleep position they put themselves in, in a prolonged way.

2 (53m 20s):
And they happened to have a deep sleep, even through the discomfort that can do actually some, some, some. So it's understandable that the body can incur some strain and stress. If you're sleeping in the wrong way. One of the things I say right off the bat is slipping on your stomach. Does doesn't really have many benefits. You know, you're, you're putting yourself into a position that is depending upon the, the orientation of your, your mattress or how many pillows you're using, but you're basically putting yourselves into excessive extension of the lumbar spine, which for most people, isn't very good if you're, if you're a disc patient, I guess that might be helpful, you know, for, for relocating the disc. But I mean, for the most part, your hands are then usually not at your sides, but they're up under your arms.

2 (54m 5s):
So you've got them into sort of internal rotation up, over elevation in your head. It's just not a great position. You also have to crank your neck for one side or the other in order to breathe, or you're gonna be your face down, straight into the pillow. So I would skip that one. And there's some people that are total belly sleepers. And I, and I would just say, listen, I don't think that is the most helpful long-term way for you to sleep. Try to adopt a different position. Sleeping on your side. Oftentimes is, is also brought along with that, the legs knees coming up towards the chest prolong hip flection, listen, we're doing enough of that during the day. Doesn't really need to know the 10 hours or eight hours or something at night like that, you know, and it just is reinforcing, you know, and as we said to you, let's say you trained that day.

2 (54m 52s):
You're just reinforcing muscle shortening overnight. You know, where, where the body is healing and trying to create some, you know, changes in your body. One of the reasons why I recommend stretching or static stretching prior to going to bed a lot, people don't really want to do it at that point. Cause it could take 10 minutes, five, 10 minutes, depending upon how many muscles you have to stretch. But you know, it's good to sort of try to establish this longer length temporarily prior to going into a state where you're going to be non-moving and recovering and, and, and creating new changes in the muscle. So, you know, that kinda, I won't say it doesn't rule out the side sleeper, the size sleeper could be very, very helpful for somebody that has apnea or you know, other other conditions.

2 (55m 34s):
So again, it's not an all or nothing approach, but it just, it's something that you need to pay attention to when you are on your back, like you were talking about, and your feet are wedged underneath a tight sheets at the end of the bed. And most of us, unless we consciously are pulling them up, don't prefer our beds that have really loose sheets at the end of the bed. It's hard to make the bed in the morning, right? So it's like, you, you, you're going to want to have, you know, them tight. Well, I'm, I'm saying, as you experienced, you know, you're going to have these there's, you know, prolonged planning reflection. That's going to likely lead to shorter, you know, calves over time because you're lacking all that length for that long period of time that you could have.

2 (56m 17s):
If you just loosened up the sheets and allowed your feet to just, you know, hang out where they are now, the resting position of the ankle has not endorsed the fluxion. It's going to be still in some player affection, but not being driven down and pulled down into that position. And I think what happens actually is people who get uncomfortable that way, even in their sleep will shift away from that by turning either onto their side of their stomach. So there's definitely an impact of the body position in sleep and figuring out the best way that you can still sleep, of course, and get your rest, but have a mindful eye towards what is doing to your body and choose the one that's least, you know, abrasive to your body is the way you should go.

0 (56m 55s):
It's terrific. And again, it's really helped me and I, I'm a big believer based on good science out of Stanford and elsewhere that, you know, as much as we can be nasal breathers and sleep, we probably should be. I don't know if you've done any content yet about taping the mouth shut with some medical tape, but you know, the, the, the benefits of nasal breathing and sleep are pretty tremendous, but it takes a little bit of training for people doing the training is very simple. It's a little, little piece of medical tape. So again, a topic for another time, I'm glad you mentioned stretching. I was going to ask about stretching a little bit later, but let's talk about stretching. When's the best time to stretch for particular types of results. And maybe you could define some of the different types of stretching.

0 (57m 36s):
So you just mentioned a little bit of, would you call it light stretching or, okay. I'm completely naive here on stretching. So let me just say, I can think of stretching where I hold the stretch and really try and ex lengthen in air quotes. Folks. I don't want the PTs jumping all over it. I don't know what it is, but nutrition and the PTs online are really, they've got pitchforks in both hands academics

2 (57m 58s):
And that's a recent, and that is a recent evolution, I think for sure and not the nutrition as much, but the PTs have become a little bit angry these days. I see.

0 (58m 4s):
Well, I always say with feelings of powerlessness comes aggression. Remember that folks. So in any, in any case they're stretching where I'm, I'm trying to consciously it LinkedIn again in air quotes, the muscle I'm not yanking on the limb or bobbing up and down. Maybe you could define the different types of stretching for people. Maybe give us some rough guidelines about whether or not to do it cold or warm before training, after training, et cetera.

2 (58m 31s):
So, yeah, there, there's obviously there's a lot of different types of stretching that could get him into PNF stretching and things that are a little bit more, you know, niche. But like in general, the two basic forms of stretching are active stretching and passive stretching. And your, you know, your dynamic work and your passive stretching is done with the goal of trying to create an increase in the flexibility of the muscle. So whether you're actually increasing the length of that muscle, but you know, more so what you're doing is increasing the resist or decreasing the resistance of that muscle to want to stay at a certain level of flexibility. So when we can sort of take the brakes off and allow that muscle to, to allow us more range of motion, we're inherently in increasing flexibility without necessarily having to increase the length of that muscle that is done at a time far away from your workout, because they have shown where this type of stretching dumb prior to an activity, and it could be like a structured activity like, oh, like lifting, or it could be a little bit less structured, like competing in a sport in a, in a spontaneous type way that there is a period of recalibration that is needed after doing this because you're disrupting the length tension relationship with the muscle that causes you to not necessarily be able to rely on these.

2 (59m 54s):
I've talked about before stored motor Ingrams in your mind in terms of this is the pattern for how I swing a golf club, say, you know, and now introducing a little bit of flexibility or added flexibility or range because of the stretching I did before it takes maybe a hole or two or three to match up again, oh, this is the, this is what he's trying to do. That golf swing thing. I, that I remembered again, like it's not remembering the, every component. Like I have to bend my right wrist back 10 degrees, and then I have to bend my elbow and I have to break like your body's stores, these patterns for motor efficiency. So, and when I have to start matching up that store pattern with what's feeling new because of the increased range I can impair performance.

2 (1h 0m 34s):
And again, it could happen even a, a gym workout where you're talking about your first, second set, third set, where maybe the repercussions aren't as big, because I'll just do a few extra sets. But in performance, if you screw up your first three rounds, you plan on the PGA tour and you shoot, you know, your six over after three you're you're done, you know, so I think it matters there as far as the dynamic, you know, so we, so we relegate that as I mentioned, sort of towards the end of the day when it's not going to impact performance, but even maybe have the additional benefit of creating the, the feeling of length or the increase or decrease in resistance to this length at a time when I know my body is going to try to tend to heal and heal shorter, never longer, but heal shorter.

2 (1h 1m 15s):
So if I can introduce a little bit of that extra length or decreased resistance to that length, it's a better time to do it. So I think it promotes a, a better recovery if I want to just

0 (1h 1m 26s):
Sorry to interrupt. So stretching later in the day, because I I'm intrigued by this concept of heal shorter. Yeah. So part of the healing and recovery process means a shortening of the muscles. This is the tensing up in sleep. Could you elaborate just a bit on that and then sorry to break your flow, but then to continue?

2 (1h 1m 41s):
No, just basically, you know, what what's been shown is that when, when the, the repair process muscular repair from let's say strength training during the day, there were a pair of process, usually results in a muscle that is slightly shorter rather than increased in length. You know, it's just a, it's, you know, muscles prefer to sort of, you know, ratchet their way down into that, that, that contraction, and then, you know, maintain that, that, that more comfortable length tension relationship. So when you're sleeping, it tends to err on the side of shorter rather than longer when ideally we don't really want that. We want to maintain as much of that length because with more length, we actually have more leverage, right.

2 (1h 2m 21s):
That muscle has more leverage to contract if it was all the way contracted, you know, you really can't obviously we know generate much force in a muscle that's already maximally contracted. So I think we, we want to do something that we, whatever we can, whatever little weapons we have in our arsenal that could allow us to do this prior to sleep. And again, it's just making it a conscious choice to do it at a time of the day. That makes a little bit more sense. Dynamic stretching is really not done for that purpose of trying to create any type of, of feeling of act or increasing the, the potential length as you set up the muscle, but more so the readiness of the muscle to perform and increasing, you know, exploring the ends of that range of motion in a more dynamic way.

2 (1h 3m 6s):
So you're not hanging out there and disrupting that length tension relationship was just sort of touching the ends of those barriers so that when you feel movement again, it feels looser. It feels more ready. And, and obviously the same time warming up blood flow, all the benefits we get from just warming up in general. So like, you know, that's, that's a series you've probably seen a bunch of times, but like, you know, legs swings and, and, you know, buck kicks and, you know, lunge, walking lunges and all types

0 (1h 3m 34s):
Of touches,

2 (1h 3m 35s):
Toe touches, all those kinds of drills, those active stretching drills, or, you know, lunging with rotations of, for the upper body to try and get some of the thoracic spine involved too. Those are the drills that people will do prior to training that are both excitatory in terms of just the nervous system, but also helpful for just the general warmup the body cause the blood flow, but from a muscle readiness standpoint, not impairing the performance while at the same time exploring the increased ranges. Because as you know, the first toe touch you do is not as high as the last hotel. She doesn't mean

0 (1h 4m 6s):
It doesn't even include the toe,

2 (1h 4m 8s):
Right? The shin touch, no touch

0 (1h 4m 10s):
Attempt. Right,

2 (1h 4m 10s):
Right. So like, you know, those, those are going to improve with each subsequent rep. And I think that's what people actually, when you can see those, those actual changes from rep one to rep seven, you just feel ready, you feel more alert and ready to go on your workout. So the dynamic type of stretching, and I mentioned earlier on, you know, like what I've had to do to sort of increase my warm-up focus. You know, I think that's more of what I try to do these days. I try to be a little bit more alert to the fact that, you know, everybody's not ready when I was, when I was working with Antonio brown. I remember like he would spend 20 minutes, 30 minutes on all dynamic work. And I've never seen anybody spend that long on their dynamic work.

2 (1h 4m 51s):
But like he said, he just didn't feel right and ready to go, unless he did a lot of that. And I mean, you know, his, his dynamic stretching routine would be a workout for most everybody, you know, it's crazy how, how much he did

0 (1h 5m 5s):
These pro athletes are amazing. And you've had the great fortune of working with and improving their, their abilities. But I can only imagine, cause I also imagined he's pretty strong in the gym also.

2 (1h 5m 17s):
I mean, you know, I, and so it always amazes me, the guys that make it to that level, no matter what sport they do, they're so gifted in everything, you know, like David Wright used to make me laugh all the time with the meds because no matter what I ping pong, you know, like anything he, because of his hand-eye coordination, like anything, you know, great at jump rope. I remember he hadn't done a lot of jump rope and I, I think jumper was one of the best things you could do from a conditioning standpoint. It's actually is fairly interesting. It's not just, you know, it's not too harsh on the joints depending on you, even though it's a ballistic move and he wasn't, I have to admit, I, you know, if you listened to this, he's gonna want to kill me, but I w I was better at him than jump roping.

2 (1h 5m 59s):
Well, the only things I could do, and then I gave him about five days and he completely blew me out of the water to the point where I could never keep up with him anymore. He made it look effortless. It's like, that's where the athlete in. Someone comes out, no matter what they pick up, they're good at it. And I think that when you see guys like this in the gym, like their strength levels tend to be pretty damn good and their, and their abilities, their coordination, their, their, everything just tends to sort of be good at that level. You know? And it sort of amazes me why those guys can go pick up a golf club, you know, and go shoot 72, you know, and, and having never really played, you know, they're just, they're just naturally good at whatever they do.

0 (1h 6m 34s):
Yeah. I have a couple I'm smiling. Cause I've got a couple of really close friends who did a number of years, some, several decades in the seal teams. And I don't know that their skill level at everything is so high as, as you're describing for athletes. But their level of competitiveness is beyond. I oceans one with one, there's no chance that I'm going to out swim pat ever, ever. He actually goes back and forth sometimes just to check up on me, which I appreciate. Thank you, pat. I'm in drown yet. But the, but in addition to that, you know, we can play horseshoes and it's like this switch that just flips on, like, he's going to murder me. She, wasn't a very nice guy, right? In general, they tend to be very honest, but the level of competitiveness, unreal,

2 (1h 7m 13s):
They're trying to beat themselves. They're not even trying to beat you.

0 (1h 7m 15s):
That's right. I'm not even in

2 (1h 7m 16s):
The kind of the competition you're not even there. Yeah,

0 (1h 7m 18s):
Exactly. Thank you. Now I won't feel so bad or worse. It's true. It's, it's a remarkable thing. I'm glad you mentioned jump roping. I used to skip rope for warm up for boxing three, three minute rounds or something like that, but I I'm glad you brought it up because skipping rope is something that obviously has a cardiovascular component. There's the conditioning component. There's timing. And, and it is kind of interesting. Right? You can. It's frustrating when you don't get it whips you on the hear if you're using a proper rope. I'm just curious if you could just give us a quick skipping rope. One-on-one do you like to see people jumping with both feet and toes? We'll we'll link to a video of if there was one and I missed it, do you like to see people doing high knees?

0 (1h 7m 59s):
Do you like people basically shuffling? You want to see people doing double Dutch? What do you want to see people doing over time?

2 (1h 8m 6s):
All of the above. Maybe not the double Dutch, but all, all of the above. I mean, I think that that's the cool thing about it, right? Like once we sort of master the skill, because for all of us, that first jump with the two feet going together is a challenge. Cause you just got to time that rope, you got time of your job. And then we get bored. As we often do as humans, we get bored with what we can do and want to take on new challenges. So then it becomes one leg at a time, or then it becomes side to side hops. Right? All of those things are beneficial. I believe neurologically to enhancing the ability to do the skill as a whole, but also just because I'm such a believer in training in all three planes. So like just doing straight up and down versus now I can do frontal plane side to side motion, and then I can even do small little twists or corkscrews we call them, it requires a different, you would know more about it better than I do.

2 (1h 8m 54s):
It requires different neurological patterns to be able to coordinate that because you're changing the orientation of your body in space. So it's not just that I'm changing the exercise, but I'm changing how my body interprets that exercise because what's happening to my body in space. So I, I love, you know, whatever people wind up doing, but I am amazed that there are people I just started following this young woman on Instagram, who is like, I'll give her a plug out of the it's like Anna skips or something. And she is ridiculous. Like I watch her and I'm like mesmerized at what she can do with the rope. You know, it's, it's like, it's an extremely athletic endeavor believe when it gets to be at that level and the speed and the precision in the, you know, and, and you know, I think one of the goals that you want to be able to have is to where you're feeling as if you're almost effortlessly dancing without a rope, like where you're just bouncing off of the ball of your foot.

2 (1h 9m 49s):
And it's an important skill to learn too, whether you go back to rum or, you know, or even even jog, right? Just like, you know, more casual running, learning how to land is so important. One of the drills that people should try is like, try to jump on your heels. So just stand up, pull your toes off the ground, right. And just jump from your heels and land on your heels. You'll feel it in your jaw. You'll literally feel your jaw rattle. When you land on your heels, there is no shock absorption capabilities through your heels. Meantime, a lot of people land on their heels a lot when they, when they run. And you're just, your body's not built to absorb the forces like the ball of your foot could. It's really built as a spring.

2 (1h 10m 29s):
And the, and the foot is a, to me as a physical therapist, the foot has always been one of the most ma you know, you talk about having bad feet. I have flat feet. It looks like I got flippers. If I took my, if I took my shoes off, like I was like, I'm wearing scuba fence. There is no, there is no adaptability of that foot to the surface. You know, when you, when it's completely caved and flattened like that, the job of the foot is to be adaptable. Well, there is maybe there is some adaptability because it's so floppy, but at the same time, at some point, that critical juncture, when you're going to then step through and you need to be able to push off the foot has to actually change is in the mid foot itself to become a rigid lever as they call it. You're, you're going from a mobile adapter to a rigid lever that rigid lever, literally up the midtarsal joint to become solid so that you can push off of it with leverage.

2 (1h 11m 19s):
If you lack that capability, all those stresses that are supposed to be born by the foot, go up into the ankle, into the knee, into the hip, into the low back. So learning how to land and start to train your body to, to experience ground reaction forces the right way is so critical to all other function in all their disability up the kinetic chain and jumping rope is like one of the best ways to learn how to do that.

0 (1h 11m 46s):
Great. I, I own a jump rope. I love doing it in the morning while I get sunlight in my eyes. It's actually a, a protocol I'd picked up from Tim Ferris who mentioned it because, you know, listening to my podcast and I'm like a broken record with get sunlight in your eyes. Even through cloud cover, it's just sets your sleep rhythms and your waking rhythms of yada yada on and on. But sometimes it'd be kind of boring for people and I want to get them off their phone. So jumping rope is also just a great way to wake up. So jumping rope can be a cardio workout, the 15 or 30 minutes. Definitely.

2 (1h 12m 20s):
And there's sort of that hybrid that we were talking about before of like, no, you're not, you're not necessarily dropping down to the ground and doing burpees, but I just look at it as a more athletic endeavor because of the coordination involved than just simply walking or jogging.

0 (1h 12m 33s):
Yeah. And you, it's not much of a equipment requirement. There are very minimal costs. You could even use a rope or, or something if you, although

2 (1h 12m 41s):
We, we even instruct people that he used no rope and just pretend, you know, and just move the arms, never going to hit the rope, which is good. But you know, at the same time, so you're never going to know if you're doing it wrong, but at least you can, you can move through the, and get the same benefits through the feet.

0 (1h 12m 55s):
I love it and love it. I told myself before sitting down with you today that I, wasn't going to focus on specific exercises because there's such a wealth of incredible content that you put out there that people could just put into YouTube or elsewhere and arrive at the proper way to do a chin or a dip or for whatever purpose. But there's one exercise in one particular motion that I'd like to discuss for a moment, because I believe that learning about this cautionary note from you is one of the reasons that I've maintained steady training for 30 years with no major injury knock on wood. And that's the upright row.

0 (1h 13m 35s):
You know, one thing that whether or not it be weight trainer or not,

2 (1h 13m 39s):
I sent you this podcast, essentially. We beep this out or no,

0 (1h 13m 43s):
You get beef about,

2 (1h 13m 46s):
You know what? I would always get beef in the, in any social media platform, wherever put out. But like now I get some, I get some from it, but I'm, I'm fully prepared to defend myself. So,

0 (1h 13m 57s):
But here, here's the reason for asking about this. I never really cared much for upright rows. It's not an exercise I tend to do, but one thing that's apparent in all my colleagues and every child I see. And every adult I see is that almost everybody is in inward rotation now. So folks think of, if you stay, I think I learned this from you also, if you stand up straight and then you just point your thumbs out, like a, like a thumbs up, but you're just pointing your hands are down. You're pointing your thumb straight out. Ideally they would go straight out. Most people, the thumbs are gonna be pointing toward one another because most people are starting to look somewhere between a, a non human primate and a melted candle. It, you know, bent at the hips, et cetera, from too much sitting, we're all sitting, we're an inward rotation, but I learned from you that the upright road compromises some important aspects of our shoulder mechanics and could be actually sort of a dangerous movement in some ways, I'm sure there's a safe way for people to do it, but so I've always made it a point now on the basis of this advice to a, not do upright rows, but I wasn't doing them before, but to really strive for external rotation on things like bench dips on, on a number of different things, whenever I can I try and go into external rotation and provided, you know, without looking like an idiot, walking around with my palms facing outward, please tell us about internal external rotation.

0 (1h 15m 18s):
The upright row is one aspect of that, but why this is so important, not just for weight training, but as in terms of posture and mechanics and, and not looking like a melted candle or partially melted candle,

2 (1h 15m 32s):
I actually love it. I am happy to talk about it cause I love, I love the shoulder as a joint. I think PTs tend to fall in love with certain areas and the shoulders. One of the cool areas for me, it's like the foot is, but like the shoulder has the most mobility in the body of any of any joint, but it's also got the least stability, right? There's always that trade-off of mobility and stability. So your stability comes from, you know, a certain muscle groups. And one of the ones that the only muscle group that actually externally rotates the shoulder is going to be the rotator cuff. Okay. And unless you are devoted to training through external rotation exercises that are going to externally rotate the shoulder, you're not training that function.

2 (1h 16m 14s):
And it's so easy for us in everyday life, especially those that aren't training to not ever really undergo any of those stresses that can be beneficial to counteracting what happens freely and naturally, which is internal rotation. So when you think about the imbalance created just by nature and how we live our lives, internal rotation far, far, far outweighs external rotation. So you need to address it. And the reason why you need to address it is because you need to normalize those biomechanics of the shoulder, if you want their long-term health. And one of the functions of the shoulder is to raise our arm up over our head. And if we do that from an internally rotated position, we're going to have a higher likelihood of creating stress inside that joint.

2 (1h 16m 56s):
Funny thing is I talked about before my, my PT brethren can be somewhat angry these days. I don't know what happened, but fairly angry. You know, they want to, they want to discredit the existence of something like a shoulder impingement, which I don't know how, I mean, certain studies look at we both, we all read studies and we, we studies will say one thing one day, potentially conflict entirely in a different direction. Some studies will point to the non-existence of a, of a, of, of a shoulder impingement. Meanwhile, we have thankfully digital motion x-rays that will literally show the impingement occur in real time in real function. And that's one of the limitations I'm off on a tangent here, but like those types of x-rays or that type of fluoroscopy that we have nowadays, like gives us such insight that we never had before, because we're taking static x-rays of someone laying down on a table, you know what I want to see what happens when he actually raised my arm up over my head in function and they, and the tools now exist to do that.

2 (1h 17m 51s):
We see the, the, the problems occurring because in order to get normal mechanics in free up the joint maximally inside, you need to externally rotate as you raise the arm up. So if your muscles aren't firing and they're not necessarily as strong as the internal rotation bias that pulls them in, you're asking for trouble every time you do that. Well, this exercise is literally putting you in elevation and internal rotation. And if you were to walk into a PT office and someone said, I think he's got an impingement, will you diagnose him? There's a test called a Hawkins Kennedy test. And I would put you in the position. I know we're not visible at this point through the podcast, but I'll put you in this position here where I have your arm elevated and your hand pretty much under your chin, pushing downward on that, to create that internal shoulder rotation, pretty much the exact position that we're in when we're holding a bar in an upright row, some will say, well, just don't go.

2 (1h 18m 45s):
So high go. Only up to the level of the chest, but you're still in this entirely rotated position. The thing that I think frustrates me the most about the exercise is that I have an alternative and the alternative does the same thing in terms of helping the muscles grow by simply fixing the biomechanics of the exercise, but just allowing the hands to go higher than the elbows. So instead of the elbows being higher than the hand was drives you into internal rotation. If the elbow is lower than the hand, the hand being higher here, I'm an external rotation. And I could do something called a high pole and still get the same abduction of the arm and still get the same benefits of the shoulders, the delts and the traps without having to undergo any of the stresses that would come from the somewhat awkward movement of an upright row.

0 (1h 19m 28s):
And for those listening, we'll put a link to a short clip of what this looks like, but basically what Jeff is doing. And tell me if I'm describing this incorrectly or correctly, Jeff is taking your two thumbs and pointing behind you and, and, you know, so elbows up kind of near the chin and pointed behind you. Like, oh, I headed that way. Like somebody directing the airplane, like, come back, come back and back. I forgot what they call that. I think it's called of foreign is the action of like where they direct the planes or something, the flags or whatever someone will, of course. Tell me I'm wrong about that too, which is why I say these things, because I like, I like being told what the, what the correct answer is in any case. So this replaces the, the upright row and, and probably does a number of other important things

2 (1h 20m 7s):
As well. Yeah, well, again, I, you know, listen, I, I, when I, without naming names or programs or anything that when I got involved and when I got involved in, in athlete X, when I first started, you know, my online presence, there was a very, very, very popular program that was out there that I just, for fun, I wanted to, as a PT, this is the, the nerdy things we do, but I wanted to evaluate the, the workout structure. And I went and I looked at every rep over the course of a week. And there was something like, you know, 890 repetitions or something done, and zero of them were dedicated to external rotation of the shoulder. So if you think about it, I mean, yeah, it was a very popular program that was done by a lot of people.

2 (1h 20m 49s):
There was no, there was no focus at all, no dedicated focus towards creating a balanced to an action that is so predominant. And remember, it's not just because we sit with bad posture, but the fact that our chess can internally rotate our lats can internally rotate. There's like muscle other big muscles that participate in things that we do every day that will further internally rotate the shoulder. The only weapons we have for external rotation are those little rotator cuff muscles, and three of them actually three of the four. And the job is to sort of actively and consciously train them through really the boring exercises, right? Like you've seen them with the band. You, you, you, you anchor a band to a pole, you stand with the band in the opposite hand.

2 (1h 21m 33s):
So if it's anchored to the pole on my left side, I've got the band in my right side. And you see people where they kind of rotate their hand towards the back again, kind of what you were saying, but at a lower elevation, taking the back of my hand and trying to point it to somebody behind me. Well, you know, that, that is that this is one of the ways to train the muscle. It's a, it's just a one function of the shoulder, external rotation of the shoulder, and you need to do it. And again, it's not that if somebody was doing more external rotation work, could they absorb the upright row better? Probably because as they elevated the arm, they'd probably have a little bit more of a contribution from the rotator cuff. That to one of the functions is to centralize the head of the humerus inside of the glenoid, you know, the capsule.

2 (1h 22m 19s):
So as it rises up, it stays central as opposed to migrating up because the deltoid likes to pull up. So if the rotator cuff has some ability to counteract the upward pole of Adele, then it can maintain a more healthy relationship with overhead movement. So just realizing that, that, that, that function is only gained through doing these exercises. You know, we, we would probably dedicate more time there, but the rotate, the upright row might be better absorbed by that person cause they have a little bit more strength. But again, why, because if you have an exercise that does the same thing for what you're trying to do, muscularly to build the muscles that it affects, why wouldn't you just do it where you can still see X and actually pick up more repetitions of external rotation?

2 (1h 23m 2s):
You know, so you're getting none of the harm, all of the benefits. I see zero reason to ever do the upright row and people will argue, this is the way they argue that I've done this for 30 years and I'd never hurt myself. And I always say yet yet, like I listen, the goal is to not hurt yourself ever. So even if you it's sort of like, you know, the championship game, you know, you might play the game of your life, but if you lose, you lost. And when you get into the end of the, you know, the record books, you're still lost. So even if you have the game of your life, you lost, I don't care if you do it for 30 years, no pain, he is still doing it. And there's no pain. I'm giving you an option. That's going to give you the same results in the exercise that you're seeking.

2 (1h 23m 43s):
That's why you're doing the exercise without the possibility of having the, you know, the, the, the bad outcome come from it. So, you know, I get a little bit defensive of, of the, of the move, but I feel like it's like, why would you do that? You know,

0 (1h 23m 55s):
No, it makes, it makes sense. Being able to train for a long period of time and feel good and, you know, know, I, I'm proud to say, you know, and I don't have the kind of genetics where, like, we don't have a lot of impressive athletes in our family tree or anything there, know some fit individuals, some less fit individuals, but I really believe it's about putting in the work consistently over time. And the, the more, the more often you can wake up, not in pain, the better. And so, you know, I think that being an external rotation has often as possible is good. This is actually a good friend. Who's a, a yoga teacher told me this is also a problem with the yogis. You know, a lot of all the downward dog stuff for those listening, you can think of inward rotation is like thumbs down, thumbs down, and where Jason isn't bad, but less thumbs down, more thumbs up as external rotation.

0 (1h 24m 39s):
So for, for those just listening, maybe that gives a visual, the more exercise you can do in external rotation, the better it seems on average, I'd love to chat with you just a little bit more about biomechanics. And, and this is a personal thing that I, that again, your content really helped solve for me. One is I thought I had lower back pain, but I had sciatica so badly that on a few trips, I work trips years ago when I was doing a lot more international travel. I mean, it was hard to stand up sometimes. I mean, really excruciating pain. I didn't want to take medication. I want to do back surgery in the end. It turns out it wasn't a back injury at all.

0 (1h 25m 21s):
And one of the things that helped fix it was this just learning about this thing called the medial glute. And you had a video that said fixed back pain, and then you quite accurately saved that some back pain. Isn't really about the back at all. And, and had me do an exercise or allowed me to try and exercise where I lay on my side and essentially pointed my, my toe down a top toe down, almost like pointing a toe down and then would slowly lift the leg up while pointing the toe down. Maybe I got it. And then holding that. And there's a, there's a muscle that sort of sits at the top of the glute. It kind of peaks out every once in a while. You can feel it there with your thumb, which is, I think that you had pushed back on it that creating that mind muscle link again, and, and there with proprioception, the actual feeling of a muscle, literally with it, with a limb we know based on the neural circuits for movement, that, that enhances the contractile ability of a muscle.

0 (1h 26m 18s):
So like if you touch your bicep, you li you literally can contract it more, more strongly. And this makes total sense based on neuro muscular physiology. So I was having to do that repeatedly. And I started doing that in my hotel room and the pain started to disappear. And then it came back again in the afternoon. So I did it again in the afternoon. So this is something that I did for three or four days. And lo and behold a back pain is gone. I handed this off to my father because he liked me has a slightly lower right shoulder. I think our gate is probably thrown off by this. It's probably genetic, who knows. He handed off to somebody. You know, it turns out that we don't suffer from back pain. And in fact, now I don't suffer anything because I, I was doing this exercise, which I think is helping my low, my medial glutes, two reasons why I raised this one.

0 (1h 27m 3s):
I know a lot of guys who have right side sciatica cause people to keep the wallet. There is one idea or less side Sadeka. There are a lot of people, male and female who think they have back pain when they don't actually have back pain. And the other thing is that is about a general question about biomechanics or statement about biomechanics. I have a feeling that a lot of what people think is back pain or knee pain or neck pain or headache or shoulder pain is actually the consequences of something that's happening above or below that side of pain. Right? And this is a whole landscape of, of stuff related to PT and, and recovery and pain management. But maybe you could just educate us a bit on this and why this works.

0 (1h 27m 45s):
What is the medial glute? Why did it make my so-called back pain disappear? And how should people think about pain? And I like to use as a segue to get into a little bit more deeper discussion about pain and recovery.

2 (1h 27m 55s):
Sure. So there, this is definitely like a big cornucopia PT stuff here, but like, I, and this is what I love. So first of all, that video that is, it's my proudest video that I have. And the reason being is that I it's helped so many people like w we get comp comments on that video every day. I don't even know how many of you just got an hour 30, some odd million or it's,

0 (1h 28m 18s):
We will link to it. Yeah.

2 (1h 28m 19s):
There's a lot of shows. And, and quite honestly, it was, it was a little bit of an afterthought video in terms of the it's it's its origin. I think that that day may be Jesse was having some problems or something like that, a little bit of low back pain. And I showed him and it helped right away. I was like, well, you know, we can make a video on it cause this, this will help people. You know, not, not everybody, you know, if you have a real disc problem, it's not gonna help, you know, because you're not changing the structural problem, that's there. But as you said, a lot of people don't, you know, and, and even disc issues, you know, a lot of them are non-operative. So you'd want to try these things first, as far as what you sort of experienced. Sometimes as that glute media is really tightens down and that's, that's again, from poor biomechanics up and down the canal chain, it can actually press on the psychotic nerve and give you what they call a pseudo sciatica nail, where it is your it's not like you're, you're making it up.

2 (1h 29m 13s):
It's not like you're not feeling that pain over that same SAC distribution, but it's not caused from a disc is not caused from something mechanical there it's caused by the fact that this glute medius has, has posturally become a problem for you or weak, you know, because you don't train it and you need to address it. So unlike not unlike any other muscle in the body, there are common trigger points in common areas where the muscle will become tightened or painful or spasm. And you can basically apply pressure to these areas too. And then sort of thread that muscle through the pressure, by pushing down through there, and then contract in the muscle, which is why you go through that action of, you know, I think we call it toast stabber, but like stabbing down and lifting up and stabbing down and lifting up, taking that, that glue media is through its function.

2 (1h 30m 4s):
So there's basically kind of working underneath the downward pressure of the finger, and that tends to help you to almost, you know, need out what might be the trigger point. And that's why people can see immediate relief there because once the trigger point lets go, it feels like, and that's what the comments are in that video. Like my God, I li I couldn't walk. I've been on my hotel floor. I did this and I'm fixed. And meanwhile, then, you know, it could come back because your body is like, well, I, I like being more like this. This is how I've been, you know, ingrained to be, so my come back. But then when you do another round of it and another round of it, and then finally it starts to say, all right, I'm not going to do that anymore. It kind of eases up and you can relieve yourself of those of those trigger points.

2 (1h 30m 47s):
You can do that up and down the back. There's other people that get that in that sort of inside their shoulder blade, you know, that, that same type of cramping in another area, but once that takes place, well, then the job that I think people have is like become educated that, you know, the glute medius is different than the glute Maximus. You know, like their functions are different. You know, you have to work on not just extending the hip, but also abduction of the hip, external rotation of the hip, same thing as in the, in the shoulder. And this actually segues nicely into what, into the whole concept you were talking about. Like the body is like a mirror image. The hip is like the shoulder, right? The ankle is the wrist. The foot is the hand.

2 (1h 31m 27s):
Like they're there, they fund the knee is the elbow there to hinge Joyce. They function that way. Well, with the shoulder, you've got that mobility that comes from having all that freedom of motion, but the stability is lacking. Well, the same thing with the hip, like you've got mobility, but if you don't fully stabilize it by training all of the muscles of the hip, and if you don't strengthen the external rotation of the hip, then you know, you've, you're, you're going to have issues like it's not biomechanically gonna work the same way. If you think of the body as a series of, you know, bands, you know, pulling in different directions at different levels of tension, you know, you're being pulled into one direction to the other, just by the balance of tension from one weak area to one dominantly tight area.

2 (1h 32m 11s):
And you need to make sure that you can sort of balance this out in order to eliminate some of the adaptations and compensations that happen. So what I say, when we look at sort of the, the, the, the body as a whole, most often, wherever you're feeling the pain is absolutely not to blame. There's not the blame. It is somewhere above or below as you hinted that, you know, you're talking about the, the knee is my, my favorite example of it. Whenever you have knee pain, patellar tendonitis, which I, I, I have forever. I've had, you know, bad, bad cases of till it tonight. It's where squatting is very difficult for me. It's not the knee. The knee is the knee is literally a hinge joint that, that, you know, there's a, there's a minor rotation capabilities in the knee, but it's a hinge joint and is being impacted by the hip and the ankle and the foot, as I said before, how critical the foot is, if you thought of the, of the knee being the, like the middle of a train track, where the femur down your thigh and your shin down below your knee, where the train track, what happened if the foot collapses at the bottom, all of a sudden that train track on the bottom gets torqued just a little bit.

2 (1h 33m 21s):
Well, who's going to feel that the most, the area where it's talking, which is at the knee, so the stresses are going to be felt there. Meanwhile, the problems is the foot, or the problem is the ankle people that are chronic ankle sprains are almost always going to wind up having back pain because the ankle sprain causes weakness and maladaptations in the ankle that then gets connected through the chain. Because now once I distort the ankle and the shin, now the knee is trying to maintain its ability to hinge smoothly. So it torques on the femur to do that. Well, the femurs now inside the hip joint pulling on the pelvis and the pelvis is out of whack. So it's really, it's really as fascinating. Like it's one of my favorite things about how the body works is like how interconnected it is and how one little thing, somewhere causes repercussions somewhere else.

2 (1h 34m 9s):
And the easiest way to find out what your problem is, is to say, okay, I know where my symptom is, but I got to find someone who can help me find the source somewhere else, because it is going to be usually either above or below, mostly, usually below. Cause it usually translates up the kinetic chain, but usually it's going to be below where the real source is. So people with low back pain usually have hip issues, weaknesses, tightnesses flexibility issues. It's almost always below when you get into really high performance athletics, though, it almost works the other way, like where we have pitchers, who can't. I mean, I'm always fascinated by guys that have Tommy John issues, you know, in their elbow, right?

2 (1h 34m 49s):
Pitchers. Like if you can't externally rotate the shoulder, that when we talked about again, the ability to get your shoulder back and the external rotation, well, your arm has to get to a certain position for release of the baseball. If it can't get there because you can't externally rotate the shoulder to get there. Then the elbow has to sort of torque more in order to allow the arm to get back further. And it will try to take some of that motion from a joint. That's not really, again, another hint, you know, the hinge joint really capable of doing that. So it starts to stress that media level ligament to get a little bit further back because the shoulder is not working and that just ultimately placed a strain on the elbow. So when you see a guy that has pain that floats around a pitcher that floats around their arm, all of that is it's sort of this balance of compensation.

2 (1h 35m 37s):
Once this shoulder elbow starts hurting, then he can't do the, get the re you know, the range from the elbow. So he tries to dig a little bit further back in textile rotation, and then the rotator cuff gets inflamed and then he feels that's inflamed. So by the way, during that time period, it takes some of the strain off the elbow. So the elbow feels better. Then he decides, okay, now I got the extra rotation, but I'm getting too much of that. So now I start straight in the elbow again, and it keeps going through this cycle. So your body is very smart and it's going to compensate every single time. It's going to find the compensation, but there's no guarantee that that conversation doesn't leave you with a whole host of other issues.

0 (1h 36m 11s):
Yeah, it's fascinating. I'm in another lifetime, I would have gone and been a PT, although it sounds like the community of among PCs online

2 (1h 36m 20s):
People, but it's like

0 (1h 36m 21s):
Scientists and neuroscientists can get into pretty intense battles, you know, in coming from the academic community. You know, the etiquette is so different online because I always say, you know, I think in person, people would probably behave a bit differently

2 (1h 36m 32s):
In your hand and say hello

0 (1h 36m 34s):
And say, hello. And, and, and there's also look, I'll, I'll just be very direct about this. There are a lot of people online for whom their only content is pointing out the misunderstandings or alleged flaws of other people. It's like it where it's like the bulk of their identity, which to me is sort of a sad existence. But, you know, there's always more to gain by thinking about what's possible and what's new and what's good, but, you know, teach their own demise or when

2 (1h 37m 1s):
Questioning what's out there, it's healthy. Normal is great. It actually sparks conversation. But as you said, some people's existence is solely to find things to, you know, nag about and not actually with the goal being to advance anything, but rather just to,

0 (1h 37m 16s):
Yeah, yeah. In, in the world of science being skeptical, but not cynical is, is encouraged. But I always say that the longer that somebody is in a career path that certainly in science or medicine, and they realize how hard it is to, you know, to do various studies. Once they publish a few studies, generally they, they sort of get a better understanding of how the various things are done in any case, another along the lines of, of pain and pain relief and, and misunderstandings about the origins of pain in the body. One of the great tools that I picked up from your content, which has benefit, I know a huge number of people is I think I used to hold a weights sometimes in the, in the tips of my fingers, as opposed to in the meat of the Palm of my hands.

0 (1h 38m 0s):
And I had elbow pain. And I always thought that I felt it most on tricep exercises and pushing exercises. And I thought I was doing those exercises wrong. It turns out toward the end of my pull-ups or my bicep work. I was letting the weight or the bar drift into my fingertips and the mirror shift to making sure that my knuckles were well over the bar or that the weight was really in the meat of my palms has completely ameliorated that for reasons that you point out, and maybe you could just share with us why that is, you know, this kind of finger pull exercise. You know, usually when someone says, pull my finger, it's like a bad middle school or elementary school joke, but

2 (1h 38m 35s):
I say, push your finger.

0 (1h 38m 36s):
Right? Right.

2 (1h 38m 37s):
Yeah. Yeah. This is fascinating. This is because it just shows again how intricate the body is and how responsive or over-responsive. It can be to something so little. And you know, what you're talking about is that when you grip a bar, whether it be through a curl or whether it be there, and this is mostly pulling exercises, because the tendency for the bar is going be to fall out of your hand, not like with a pushing exercise where it's kind of, you know, you're, you're pushing your hand into the bar. So on a bench press say that bar can drift just by gravity. We don't want doing his thing or fatigue of the, the hand grip strength can start to drift further away towards the distal digits, right? Through those, through those last couple knuckles that we have on our hands.

2 (1h 39m 20s):
And though our hand can still hold it there. The muscles are not equipped to handle those types of loads. And that can start at a very, I'm not going to say light, but like, you know, it can start it, you know, dumbbell weight, you know, 40 pounds, 30 pounds, you know, even 25 pounds for some, depending upon their overall strength levels. But then when you start to apply it to something like your body weight with a chin up, right. Cause that's natural for the bar to somewhat kind of float down towards your fingertips. And it actually is a little bit easier to perform the exercise with that sort of like false grip, little hook grip at the end, because you're not going to engage the forearms into the exercise.

2 (1h 40m 2s):
You're not going to start pulling down, but at the same time, while it could help you to perform them better by getting the back more activated, if you have weakness in these muscles. Cause not a, it's not a thing that happens to every, there's not one of those upright road type things where I think this is happening to everybody. This is happening to people that have these inherent weaknesses in this, in this, in, in this, these muscles you, or, or haven't done enough of the gripping in the four in the, in the immediate, the hand, you know, for long enough. But it starts to put that stress on these muscles that are ill-equipped to do this and it to handle this. And it starts to it's particularly on that fourth finger, you know, which is part of the muscle. We call the FDS a flexor digitorum that is just too much for it to handle.

2 (1h 40m 45s):
And that comes all the way down and meets right at the medial elbow around that spot that you can say feels like someone's knifing you right in the middle, in that middle elbow and immediate epicondylitis, or they call it golfer's elbow is something that a lot of us deal with in the gym. It's one of the most common inflammatory conditions people get from the gym. And it all comes from this positioning of the dumbbell or a barbell or hand on a pull-up bar over time. So the easiest thing to do is just grip deeper so that what you're doing is you're using more leverage from the Palm to encapsulate the bar or the dumbbell or whatever. And you're not putting that pressure really distally right on that last digit, because that's where the, that FDS muscle is most strained.

2 (1h 41m 29s):
So you you're just almost eliminating that from the equation. And, and, and it's one of those exercises that the load can exceed its capacity pretty quickly. So that like, you know, maybe it's only capable of handling 30 pounds. And then when you're doing a chin-up any, it goes, and it drifts so far that it's now you're, let's say you're a 200 pound guy you've got, let's say a hundred pounds through one arm and a hundred pounds. This is simple simplified math that obviously is offset by other muscles, but a hundred pounds to one arm, a hundred pass their ball a hundred pounds off of a muscle that can handle 30. It's not going to take many repetitions to strain it. And you're going to feel that maybe by the time that sets over, or certainly by the time that workouts over the next day, you wake up and you've got that notable stabbing pain.

2 (1h 42m 11s):
Whenever someone feels that the best thing would be to determine, okay, what exercises would I do that we're pulling and where the bar could have drifted deeper or farther from the meat in my Palm, into my fingers and figure out a way that deepen that grip when that happens, though, the best thing to do with most of these inflammatory conditions is not do any of that stuff for a little while. Not ever just for a little while. There's always things that you can do around it. I'm not saying ever do I say, like, don't go to the gym or don't find something you can do, but I'm saying that particular exercise that you feel the pain on while you're doing it, never a smart idea to do that exercise when it's inflamed, if you are doing exercise and it hurts, you probably shouldn't do the exercise because another reason for the variability of exercises there, there's so many other options that you can do that will train similar muscles or even the same motion and not cause that stress.

2 (1h 43m 7s):
So, I mean the cable cable curl would be much easier to do that on than let's say a chin up where you don't have the control over the weight like you do by moving a pin on a stack. So, you know, I think that that, that is a common thing that people find. And the best thing to do is just figure out how grip, how deep are you grip in that bar? You're going to find that, oh my God, I didn't realize that because it was just, even though you might start a set in a good position and then it drifts away as you go. Yeah.

0 (1h 43m 33s):
I think that's what was happening to me. And I'm very conscious of this now, again, for me, it's, I haven't had this elbow pain at all, so that's great. You know, very fortunate. So again, a debt of gratitude to you never, I thought there's was some role on my elbow basically. And I thought maybe it was tennis elbow. I don't even play tennis. And so there you go. Other aspects of recovery and various variables for recovery, I think you and I both put out content about the use of cold. And I think we can summarize it by saying, yeah, it does seem like cold water immersion immediately after hypertrophy restraints, workouts might be a problem, but a cold shower is probably not a problem. What about heat? Do you, do you personally use heat and cold saunas, hot, hot BAS hot compresses, you and by you, I mean you personally and, and athletes that you coach or people that you coach, what, what are your thoughts on the use of heat and or cold?

2 (1h 44m 28s):
Well, I think, you know, it might just be an inherited practice from the days of, you know, trainers of, of, you know, since a babe Ruth, you know, but we, we in baseball, we used a lot of cold following performance, you know, just because the, the idea would be there, there is some especially pitchers, you know, there is some inflammation that is abnormal. You know, the arm is not really designed to do what they do, especially at the, at the speed that they move it and everything else. So we would use, you know, ice as a pretty standard practice after that, but not, not a lot of heat. And I need to use a lot of heat. And of course from the recovery or the, the, the healing aspect that actually becomes rather a personal preference, they've found now after, let's say the first 12 to 24 hours, you know, where are you really trying to control inflammation of what, you know, might be an injury, but then it, then it can kind of shift the personal preference because they, he can bring blood to the area also.

2 (1h 45m 23s):
And then the, you know, the, the, the cold has it sort of anti inflammatory effects. So like, there's a, there's a balance between which one's working better for you. So there's really no standard anymore for heat or cold in that way. But from a standpoint of like, post-workout healthy status, I haven't used much heat or cold in terms of what we do. We, you know, we cover the topic of the cold showers and to try to dispel the myth of the, you know, even people saying that there's giant testosterone releases and, you know, all kinds of stuff that, you know, listen, we hear all kinds of things cause people want, like, I think the idea of just turning the water cold and being in it for 30 seconds, and then all of a sudden magically growing three times, your size is intriguing for a lot of people and they, and that's why they ask these questions.

2 (1h 46m 6s):
Cause they're like, that'd be a hell of a lot easier than going to the gym and training hard, but like, I'm always fascinated by some of the stuff that, that you talked about. In fact, we started talking about some of this stuff in terms of cooling and what it can do on performance. And that was, you know, like there there's some untapped territory there that I think you're finding out about.

0 (1h 46m 25s):
Yeah. What would be fun would be to bring the cool MIT technology from Stanford. This is Craig Heller, my colleague Craig, Heller's a lab at Stanford and really important, amazing work in this area. But then it moved on to some other things. He's also working on down syndrome and he works on a number of other really important topics that scientists often do. But I have access to the SchoolMint technology, no relationship to the company, by the way, we'd love to come out to your facility and, and we can do the blind type studies

2 (1h 46m 52s):
And blue blocker test.

0 (1h 46m 53s):
Exactly, exactly. And, and see how that goes in, in with somebody advanced, as advanced trained as you, the that's probably the best thing to do so content for the future. Yeah. I think heat and cold are kind of staples in the PT world and it does seem like people use them slightly differently, but they are, they are kind of the macronutrients of, of recovery there along, along with sleep. I would, I do have a question about precision of record-keeping. Do you keep a training journal? Do you recommend people keep training journals? Are you neurotically fixed to, you know, cadence of movement? And are you looking at the, do you have a buzzer going off or night when it's 90 seconds rest?

0 (1h 47m 36s):
Is it 90 seconds rest? I confess I have my slow workouts and my faster workouts. And they scale with whether or not I'm training heavier with longer rests or whether or not maybe midway through a workout, I'll shift over to doing higher repetition, lower arrests. This is kind of my crude way of, of keeping time, but I'm not, you know, we'll be just to kind of watch the clock, but I'm not neurotically fixed to the buzzer, nor am I on social media during my workouts, which is actually a way to really improve workouts is to just not be on social media.

2 (1h 48m 8s):
I can't claim that I'm not guilty of that. Sometimes I am on social media, but sometimes I'm trying to post something that's

0 (1h 48m 14s):
Different.

2 (1h 48m 16s):
But I mean, I, I, I'm not, I'm not a necessarily a chain to some sort of protocol in terms of how I do. I think by this point I've been doing this a long time and not only is it something that I've done for a long time, but it's, it's a passion of mine, something I really enjoy. So I probably inherently have the ability to stick to these, these guidelines in terms of rest time, to know what I lifted, you know, even six months ago on a lift and, and how it felt without journaling it. But I recognize the value. It has to a lot of people, it goes back to that whole, my muscle connection idea that we talked about in the beginning.

2 (1h 48m 57s):
Like there's a lack of awareness for all aspects of training, especially maybe isn't like your interest level and we're talking you and I from a position of interests, like this is what we do. We, we enjoy just how our bodies work and understanding how they work. Some people don't care, they just want the end result, but journaling and keeping track of that raises awareness to where like, oh my God, I w I have been on Instagram for the last seven minutes and I was supposed to be back at my next set in 90 seconds. Like there is a training effect of that, you know, like you, you, you know, if you're training for a metabolic overload, you've blown that opportunity because you haven't, you know, your rest time was very, was very important to that protocol working as it should.

2 (1h 49m 41s):
If you were training for strength, maybe the extra few minutes doesn't matter so much. When you get back on the bar, you might find, I mean, you find that it's a better response for your body to rest even longer than you've been told three, four minutes, five minutes. And so that way maybe it helps, but I think that anything you can do to increase your awareness of your performance and also give yourself some objective goal. Whenever we have an objective goal, it's a lot easier to actually obtain it when you're just there to get a pump. And you're just there to lift how you feel that day. You have to be incredibly disciplined in all other aspects of your workout in order to make that effective. You know, and I, and I've done that too. I've actually been able to do that too, but again, the level of repetitions I've accumulated over the course of my life and the amount that I, that I, you know, read about this stuff.

2 (1h 50m 30s):
And I think I'm able to get away with that, but, but I think more often than not what I'm doing is not journaling, but journal journaling in my head, exactly what I think people should be doing. And that is getting a specific effect from what you're trying to do. It's not so haphazard, you know, you want to get a specific effect, just like any other experiment that you're doing. You're doing an experiment on your own body with your own ways. Which to me is one of the most empowering things someone can ever do when they get bitten by the bug for exercising and training. And I like to use the word training and rather than exercise, because there's a purpose behind it. But when they get bitten by that training bug and they start to see actual changes and results, you know, empowering that is because we can't change.

2 (1h 51m 11s):
We can't really control that many things in our life, unfortunately. And it's, there's some things that happened to us that we really wish never happened. And those are not something that we can do anything about, but this is one thing that we can do our best to. We can't avoid disease entirely. We can't predict when we're going to die. We can't, you know, do those things, but we can certainly decide to show up into the gym that day and get a workout in, or go for a run or do something. And by doing that, you're giving yourself, I think, a better chance at a higher quality of life. So anything you can do to increase your awareness of it and keep you on track with that is like I'm endorsing fully

0 (1h 51m 45s):
Couldn't agree more. I could not agree more. The, there is a topic it's sort of a dreaded topic, but I think it's an important one. And that's the topic of nutrition. And rather than again, to specific meal programs, which would, you know, take take hours and probably wouldn't even manage to scratch the surface. Even with ours, maybe we could talk about principles around nutrition. What are sort of the themes that you think people should keep in mind in when thinking about how to eat generally and pre-training, and post-training are two particularly sensitive times for most or times that people want to know a lot about, you know, what should they eat before training?

0 (1h 52m 26s):
Or can they train fast edge? What should they eat afterwards? But just in general, what do you think are some, some axioms of, of, of nutrition that, that really hold? And I asked this, I, because not because there's a lot of debate about this, but because you've been around this space a long time and you've seen what works for you obviously, but for other people too, you know, w what tends to work, what tends not to work. And now, should we think about nutrition?

2 (1h 52m 54s):
I mean, you you've touched on it a bit, but like, you know, the nutrition can be a touchy subject for people. And, and I understand where that comes from. I I've talked about before the there's a dogmatic tendency to, to nutrition, and there's a reason for it because it's an area that people struggle with more than anything else. And the reason why people struggle with nutrition is because the commitment is extremely high. You know, you could start a workout program and actually get to the gym three to five times a week. That's five hours based on how you and I were discussing it before. Well, what about the other 23 hours of each of those days, there's opportunity to eat incorrectly or unhealthily.

2 (1h 53m 36s):
Every one of those hours, people wake up in the middle of the night to go eat. You know, like there are, there are things that you can do that can cause amazing amounts of damage to your longevity in the 23 hours, not the one hour, the 23 hours. So when people finally figure out a way to make that work for them, it's very passionate and I understand their passion. I do like I've put out. So my approach, my approach is like, I've always been sort of a low sugar, lower fat guy. I've made the mistake of going no fat years ago. And I paid for it. I was like in college. And, you know, back in the day we were the same age, you know, we read all the magazines and that was what we had.

2 (1h 54m 16s):
We didn't have internet then. So we were, we were reading magazines and the recommended path was to go low fat. It helps you to become hypo caloric very easily because the density of the calories in a gram of fat versus a gram of carbohydrates or protein is nine versus four for the carbs and protein. So if you're cutting out grams of fat on a daily basis, you're quickly cutting out calories that allows you to get leaner. Well, of course, as everything, I mean, if a little is good, then a lot is better. So I would cut all of them out or almost all of them. And at the age of 22, 21, I'm like standing at a stop at, up at university of Connecticut, waiting for the tram to come and bring me to campus.

2 (1h 54m 59s):
And I couldn't even open my eyes because the light was blinding to me. It was normal sunlight. It was blinded to me, the photosensitivity I had, you know, learning later on after a few more courses that I took there and biology, you know, how, how, you know, necessary fat was for the development of healthy cells. I realized what was going on and not too many other stuff. Skin was bad. Hair was falling out, all kinds of stuff. So I think that the approach to decreasing fat, so it's not excessive, you know, because again, how calorically dense it could be in having lower sugar. I don't, I'm, I'm a firm believer in sugar is really pretty toxic and something that we would all do better getting rid of a lot of it.

2 (1h 55m 45s):
That is the best approach for, I believe again, in my opinion, personally, for the overall big picture, because though the people can take exclusionary approaches to nutrition and taking carbs out, or, you know, you know, eating only fats and proteins, or again, I'm not saying it doesn't work for you. And if it's the first thing that actually allowed you to gain control of your nutrition, to the point where you actually saw results and got to a healthier way, then I always say, then do it, then do it, but just make sure something you can do forever and doesn't bring upon other repercussions. But I think that non exclusionary approaches to diets are the most sustainable for the rest of your life.

2 (1h 56m 26s):
And when I, and all I'm interested in from a nutrition standpoint, it's something that's sustainable. So when I preach what I preach, I've been doing this since I was 15, 14. You know, people say like, has he gets so ripped? How's he get, I have been doing this for 40, since it was for how many years? 30, 30 years. 30

0 (1h 56m 43s):
Clean, low sugar.

2 (1h 56m 44s):
Yeah. 30 years, you know, and in the beginning it was a slow shift. I had to make where I was like, I went from the worst diet in the whole world. I was even when I was 14 years old, my breakfast was, I talked about this many times, but like enemies, I would eat enemies, you know, donuts. And, and those are

0 (1h 57m 2s):
The long road

2 (1h 57m 5s):
And I

0 (1h 57m 6s):
Took the whole out of the donut. Yeah,

2 (1h 57m 8s):
Exactly. Why would

0 (1h 57m 9s):
You, why would you delete the middle of the

2 (1h 57m 11s):
Donut? You know, the, the crumb, the crumb donut there. I, I would eat dog.

0 (1h 57m 15s):
I can taste it in my, I don't like sugar very much, but I, over the years I've lost my appetite for sugar. But as you talk about the engine stones, I can literally smell and taste the frosting. And to me now it's disgusting. But back then it might've been appetizer.

2 (1h 57m 28s):
We would probably have like really good information on this, but like my ability to actually remember, I know they've said smell is very evoking of memories, right? Yeah.

0 (1h 57m 38s):
So there's a smell is unlike the other senses because there's a direct line, literally from our sense of smell to the memory centers of the brain, it doesn't have to go through any intermediate stage.

2 (1h 57m 47s):
Okay. So, you know, my ability to actually recall exact tastes of all the stuff that I used to love is enough to satisfy me to not do not engage in those things. Now, as crazy as that is, I like, I almost get my fill through remembering because of these strong senses of memory of what it was like as odd I used to taste so good. Okay. That's good. I had it. So,

0 (1h 58m 9s):
Yeah. Well, that's, that's we know that the neuromodulator there that's dopamine, your ability to get the dopamine release from the thought of something. Most people, when they get that dopamine release, it causes a triggering of the desire for more and more right. People think of dopamine as pleasure. Dopamine. There's a book, great book called the molecule of more. I didn't write the book unfortunately, but someone else did. And it's a great book. And it's really about how dopamine we think it's about pleasure, but it establishes gravy. So you're able to satisfy that. And it's a very adaptive thing for you because you are indeed very lean. And that's one of your kind of hallmark things. And, you know, as a professional, who does this in the public space, that's important, you know, when people are out there talking about getting lean and you look at them and you're like, you know, maybe you need to do the protocols.

0 (1h 58m 56s):
It's a huge advantage. But yeah, I think that, it sounds like you've cultivated practices around avoiding certain things.

2 (1h 59m 3s):
Yes. Yeah. I mean, but not, you know, avoiding certain things that I think are easily avoided. If you realize that there, I think that we have enough science and literature out there to prove that the, the altered path is a better path. You know, you know what I mean? Like, I feel like if I, if I was just doing it because I wanted to be lean, I'm not quite sure it would have held for so long, you know,

0 (1h 59m 26s):
And we have a guest that whose episode has been recorded for this podcast who runs an eating disorder clinic at the university of Pennsylvania medical school studies, binge eating disorders, anorexia OCD. And, and he will go on record and obesity. And he will go on record saying that these very highly palatable, processed high sugar foods of the sort that we're talking about, donuts and so forth, that they are actually dangerous, right. That there are elements of the way that they engage neural circuitry. He's a neurosurgeon that reshape the brain in dangerous ways. And those are his words and

2 (2h 0m 2s):
Tech enemas, for

0 (2h 0m 3s):
Sure. Yeah. And it's not just Entenmann's, I mean, I think not just sentiments, right? Yeah. They're coming after us with, with what, with donuts. They can't catch us in any case. So in terms of what you do eat, how do you structure that in terms of, when you look down at a plate you've done these described this before by the, it's just a beautifully simple description. Cause I think a lot of people don't want to do calorie counting and all this and you know, how do, how should people think about what to eat?

2 (2h 0m 35s):
So, yeah, I have what I like what I call plate method. And it's just, it just simple because it works for me, you know? And again, if you're struggling with, with real eating issues, these, these mechanisms become admittingly less effective because you're having maybe ever emotionally triggered eating and you can't stop at one plate. I mean that you could get the plate, right. But if the portions are out of control,

0 (2h 0m 57s):
Plate, plate has a dimensionality of Heights

2 (2h 1m 1s):
Or multiple plates, you know, like second and third plate Or plate, right. Like then I, you know, all these things can be challenged, but what I, what I say is when you have your plate, then you just simply look at it as like a, like a clock, right. And if you just make a nine 20 on the clock, so one arm goes over to the nine and one of the arms goes over to 20. Well, then you're basically, you're going to take the second largest portion of that because you think it'll make a line towards 12 o'clock two and the largest portion is going to be your fibrous carbohydrates. So that's the, the, the, you know, the green vegetables, right? So whether it be broccoli or brussel sprouts or asparagus, or, you know, you know, pick your, pick your favorites, you know, like those are the ones that give us a lot of the micronutrients we need.

2 (2h 1m 49s):
They're the ones that are generally accepted as more healthy. And they're also going to provide the fiber. That's going to be both beneficial in terms of its impact on insulin and also just through filling you up. Right. And then I'd take the next largest portion of that. And I devote that towards protein. And I think it's really important, especially for anybody active, the more active you are, the more you embark on trying to build muscle, you're going to need to have protein, every meal. So I have that. And again, you know, we're talking cleaner sources of protein, but like, I, I am, you'll never find like boiled chicken on my plate. Like I ditched those days when I was 16 or 15 or 16, like I realized after reading those bodybuilding magazines that maybe the low-fat thing stuck for too long, but the, or the no fat things stuck for too long, but the boiled chicken and, and, you know, steam broccoli thing that ended quickly for me, cause I really, I'm not going to eat this forever.

2 (2h 2m 41s):
So I'll have some sort of fish or chicken, but it will be, it will be cooked in a way that's, that's like, you know, it's got maybe some sauce on it or it's got some, maybe it's tomato sauce has anything to just make it a little bit more palatable and interesting without blowing the value of the meal. And then that last portion is where I put my starchy carbohydrates. And again, that's the part that some people will say exclude them entirely because they're not healthier. They don't work for you, or they're not, you know, beneficial long-term for me, it's been a godsend. And I do think I'm like, most people, my body craves those carbohydrates, I choose things like sweet potatoes, which is my favorite, you know, or I'll have rice or I'll have pasta I'm Italian.

2 (2h 3m 22s):
So I like pasta. And I like, I will have those things. I'm not excluding them, but I don't put them in the portions that you would generally find, you know, my wife and I we'll go out and we'll go to the restaurant sometimes. Like, because we travel quite a bit are used to at least with baseball too. There's a cheesecake factory everywhere you went. And I love cheesecake factory, but like the way they structure meals is it's all rice on the bottom and a little bit of chicken on top. And I mean, it's a plateful of rice that you wouldn't find me make a plate that way. I'm going to just devote that portion of the plate to the starchy carbohydrate. And so it gives me a little bit more responsibility in terms of portion control. Cause those are the foods again, probably, you know, dopamine driven that are most easily overeaten.

2 (2h 4m 5s):
I always ask the question, how was the last time you ate 10 chicken breasts at a meal? Like you're getting sick of it after maybe two or three, but you could eat a whole hell of a lot of carbohydrates, starchy carbohydrates, because they're just so satisfying. And I think those triggers, as you said, the want more, like that's what happens, right? You just keep, even when you're feeling full, you want more and that's the biggest danger to carbohydrates. So if you can develop some sort of discipline around them, then you can still enjoy them. If you can't develop that discipline for whatever reason, maybe they do become something that you have to work yourself around or adopt a different eating style. And as I said, I'm never to the point where I'm not trying to be dogmatic in my approach.

2 (2h 4m 46s):
I'm always trying to say, this is how I do it. And I'm, and I'm a believer in it just like everyone else's believer in their method, but I'm open to the idea that something that works for you and gets you to a, a healthier weight and a sustainability like that is good. That's, that's good for me, you know, provided it. Doesn't introduce other other issues, you know?

0 (2h 5m 5s):
Yeah. Something one can do consistently. That's only, I picked up from you over the years, you know, what can you do consistently? And for me, that also meant what, when and how can I eat? What can I eat consistently that will also allow me to be alert after lunch so I can actually get some work done or eat. I like to train fasted in the morning, but I don't do any long-term fast. And just so happens that I'm fine doing a water and caffeine in the morning and training in the morning. And then I eat my first meal afterwards, but I get carbohydrates at night. So my glycogen is stored. I think carbohydrates are wonderful. I just don't eat them in excess. Right. So to me, it's, I, I feel like when, what you describe as a very rational, literally balanced approach, and obviously there will be variations for people who are dealing with obesity or diabetes, or, you know, I, I've got friends that are on the pure carnivore thing.

0 (2h 5m 54s):
I have friends that are vegan and it's always impressive to me when somebody can stick to anything consistently, except when they're sticking to just poor behavior, because it doesn't, there's nothing impressive about that. Well, I think that that's very helpful because I think there's for the typical listener of this podcast, you know, that the online content that people see the battles are very confusing. They're, they're distracting because people really think, oh, that there's a right way and a wrong way. And it's, it sounds like the way that one can eat consistently over time, that's healthy, certainly fewer processed and sugary foods. I think almost everything.

2 (2h 6m 33s):
Yeah. Almost everyone agrees on that. Right. So I think it is it's, it's, it's calorie manipulation through some other method, right? So even, even intermittent fasting, like, you know, like you said, like that could be it's for people that are grazers. Like if you are a Grazer and your real problem is portion control over the course of the day, but you can respond to a rule that says, no, you're eating between here and here that you can obey that rule. Well, you're not going to be able to graze during the times that you might be doing additional damage. So I'm sure there's, there's, there's other hormonal benefits that people will talk about from that approach. But from a longevity standpoint and habit forming standpoint, if it's fixing the habit that you're breaking too often by eating throughout, whenever you feel like you walk by food, it's good, you know, and it works.

2 (2h 7m 22s):
And again, it's, it's, you know, people can, will tell you, you can probably eat whatever you want to eat as long as you're eating within those that window. But I think the more responsible people who are practitioners of that will say, no, you still want to avoid sugar and things like that. So, and that's just the mechanism of eating, not really a diet, right? But like, it's, it's, I think that people, I hate this, I hate to be as like, as, as basic as it sounds with that, but it's for the exact reason that if it's that 23 hour day phenomenon that it's like, you know, you said you're impressed. It is impressive. You know, it's so hard to control all of our behaviors and food being one of the hardest, they, one of the biggest temptations for people, you got to learn how to control that for so long and then do it day after day after day, whatever that mechanism is that works for you is, is impressive.

2 (2h 8m 12s):
And, and, and I, and I'm, and I'm a, I'm a believer in it. You know, I think that's, that's how I feel. I just feel like people need to be able to be given some rains, to be able to, to, to find what works for them.

0 (2h 8m 23s):
Well, I love to eat. And one of the beauties of weight training is I feel like I can eat plenty for my age and I'm not as lean as you are, but I'm happy with where I'm at. I could always do better, you know, with each year, actually I I'm getting better probably because I'm eating cleaner probably. Cause I also have someone to cook for me now. And, and we like, and we like,

2 (2h 8m 44s):
We

0 (2h 8m 44s):
Like healthy food. And so we're, I'm very fortunate. I don't think we have any packaged food in our home. We even started making sauerkraut at home. I don't make it. She makes it,

2 (2h 8m 54s):
My wife actually, you know, she, she turned me on to a tip that I actually shared with, with the whole channel, which was like, you can, you can go to, we have a stew Leonard's around our, our big grocery store chain around us. And they have a catering department. And you know, they're often used for catering, big parties and, you know, big tubs of, of, of grilled chicken, but like really good grilled chicken, again, not the boiled chicken, but a big tubs of sweet potatoes. And we'll, you know, we'll get a bunch of those and she'll go over and she'll get them. Then she'll sort of arrange them on plates and put the plates in and like, I'm okay with repetitive eating. I think more people are probably okay with repetitive eating and they think, I think that when you actually break down how many different breakfast variety, like variations, do you have three to two or three?

2 (2h 9m 42s):
I think when people do, there's more variety for dinner probably, but like even there, you probably eat five different types of dinners, you know, over the course of, you know, a week or a month. Well, you know, if you have that ability to identify the things that you like, and again, no plan is going to work. If you're eating stuff you don't like, it's not going to work forever. Nothing will, you have to really enjoy what you're eating. As long as these, these variations of this meal or something that you really enjoy. And there are limited versions of them. The reproducibility of that is simple. You know, it will take some time, but if you're fortunate enough in our case to have somebody who can prepare it for you, now that's even part out of the equation, you know? And it's, it's, it's like it, it just makes it very simple.

2 (2h 10m 24s):
But I do think when you tally up all the costs of medical care that are, that are, that are spiked by having poor nutrition and you offset that by what it might cost you to invest in a faster strategy like this catering trick or whatever it might be. You'd be best off figuring out a way to maybe reallocate some of your money to preparing this because you know, how, how important it is to your long-term health and longevity. If you can figure out your nutrition issues, if everyone listening to this podcast can figure out their nutrition issues, this whole world will be different. That is like one of the largest sources of disease and, and pain and discomfort because people really struggle with nutrition.

0 (2h 11m 4s):
Yeah. And it's a, it's a huge problem in the OBC. It is an epidemic in this country. So very, very serious. Also a lot of highly processed foods are more expensive than healthier foods when you really break it down. Even the, even the better sourced, highly high quality foods are right there on par, less than the processed foods. For sure. I have a couple other questions as it relates to training, because I think that one, one thing that a lot of people wonder about, and maybe we could do this in kind of a true false method first, just to get through some of these,

2 (2h 11m 43s):
Get it right. At least

0 (2h 11m 45s):
Exactly men and women should train differently.

2 (2h 11m 48s):
The science of it will say false the, and again, not to generalize, but kind of the point you touched on earlier today, I do find that casually interested women in training will migrate more towards certain types of fitness, like kickboxing, like dancing, like, you know,

0 (2h 12m 9s):
Low rest circuit types. Yeah.

2 (2h 12m 11s):
And I, and I think, again, whatever is that you're going to engage in regularly is what you should do physiologically. No. And I think if, if, if we can get more women to feel more comfortable in the gym, performing the same exercises in the same in, in receiving the same strain, training benefits and working on progressive overload and like, you know, we've hit the holy grail. But I think that it's a, it's a big bridge that has to be gapped still because, you know, there's just some reality to listen. There are very, my wife is a perfect example of this leader, living a very complicated, busy life. We have two young boys they're they're twins and her, her attention and focus is there, you know?

2 (2h 12m 55s):
And it's like, she, she doesn't do this for a living like I do. And if she can get a decent workout and she's happy, you know, but she's not necessarily working on her deadlift PR you know? And so I think that that would help her and serve her in the longterm to work on increasing her, her PRS and different lifts and building her strength progressively. But I, I, you know, in, in, in her life right now is not necessarily in the cards to have the time to focus on that. So would you then discourage, you know, this other thing that she might find interesting, like some boxing, you know, there, there was a little, I don't remember the brand, but like one of those punchable boxing stand up things, you know, and she enjoys it, you know, and you know, like anything to get to get you moving is going to be preferable.

2 (2h 13m 41s):
But I don't think that necessarily physiologically. There's a, there's a, there's a difference.

0 (2h 13m 45s):
You start weight training pretty young.

2 (2h 13m 46s):
Yeah. I, I messed around w you know, with my brother, cause he was older. He was four years older. So I was kind of messing around with weights probably 12 or 13 with a five pound dumbbell. Okay.

0 (2h 13m 56s):
Yeah. You hear that a young kid shouldn't work out with the weights. I don't know what the going standard is. Now. They say, oh, you know, shuts down long bone growth or growth plates. You know, this sort of thing. You've got two young boys, adorable kids, by the way, I wanted to, one of the things that is, is very heartwarming is to see you're in great shape. You're extremely bright. You know, your craft, you love your craft. You work with Jessie who we'll talk about as well, you know, which is great. You know, that there's a comradery there and the team having great teammates as part of a business or, or to work out with, it just makes life better. Let's just be honest. I'm grateful to have great teammates for the podcast and my lab, of course, as well, but to see your boys and your dogs and that the whole picture, you know, it's, it's, you know, I'm sure it has a lot of contours and complexity that we don't know about and shouldn't know about, but it's a beautiful picture.

0 (2h 14m 46s):
And, and we'll they weight, train. I've seen the videos of one or both of them hanging from the boss,

2 (2h 14m 53s):
Naturals. I'm telling you that. I

0 (2h 14m 54s):
Wonder where they get.

2 (2h 14m 56s):
I don't even, I, I, you know, I don't even encourage it. I'm not going to be the dad who's sitting there and say, let's go somewhere. Yeah. We got our two days here. I'm not going to not going to do that. But they, they have a natural interest in the gym. They just sometimes like to be out with daddy. So they'll come out there. And, you know, I have the two of us, my wife and I will be the one who has a little bit more of a longer leash to let them explore things. Cause I was a dummy at times too, and figured out best through the mistakes. I re-injured.

0 (2h 15m 24s):
Yeah. We sat in neuroscience, we call that one trial learning.

2 (2h 15m 27s):
These guys are gonna be mashed as of one child learning because you know, they'll go grab, you know, the, the, the bars of my, the handles of my jammer. That's there. Cause it's at a lower level to them and they're swinging around, they're doing pull ups on it. Naturally. I'm coach, nothing from me. One will walk out to a deadlift bar, stand over it naturally never saw me do it, stands over there and just goes, tries to pull it. So there's a, there's a definitely an inclination to liking the gym and I will fully support that. But of course, you know, body weight will be good for quite a while.

0 (2h 15m 56s):
Yeah. So what age do you think is reasonable for kids to start exploring a non body weight?

2 (2h 16m 1s):
I think around 13, you know, I think around 13, once puberty, I think it's okay to start to, you know, cause there's so much, I ain't even say for people that are like later in age who are just starting out, learn with your own body weight. First, there's plenty of resistance to be had by learning how to command your body in space. So if you have never trained before, you're going to get very stimulated by doing lunging and reverse London, even learning some appropriate section around movement through space pull-ups chin-ups Polson championship challenging for even people that have had 20, 30 years of experience in the gym. So there's a lot of stimulus to be had by bodyweight and jumping straight to dumbbells or barbells is actually doing yourself a disservice.

2 (2h 16m 42s):
You can learn better command of your body and space so that when you go back to the bigger lifts, you're going to have an easier time sort of progressively loading them and building up that foundation of strength. I'm not saying that you have to become a master calisthenics athlete before you can touch a barbell. That's not even true. I'm just saying there's so much capacity. Kids are going to be doing this anyway. And really just, if you look at general play, they are jumping, they are lunging, they are climbing, they are pulling like, that's what they do. You know? So Y I don't know where the avoidance of like structured training is for younger kids. Again, provide other using body weight, maybe, you know, less ballistic movements or something like that. You know, things that are, you know, there are certainly overloaded movements.

2 (2h 17m 25s):
I think we should encourage kids to do more. There's a lot of obesity and kids on the rise also, and that is incredibly disconcerting to me. So I think it, and I hope it doesn't come from the advice of some that say, we'll wait until you're older to start doing something. Like, that's a way worse trade-off than, than, than engaging in something smart. Now

0 (2h 17m 45s):
We used to get kicked out of the house when we were kids. Totally. My mom would kick us out. Right. Don't know I had a huge pack of boys that lived on my street, you know, but we'd get kicked out side. Like literally you're not allowed in the no television. There were video games, of course. But we were, we were kicked out of the house. We had to go play Presto, skateboarding, soccer, and then we'd, you know, we'd find our trouble. Yeah. But so post-training nutrition. We're the same age years ago, I was sort of neurotic about the idea that I had to ingest a certain amount of carbohydrates and proteins within two hours. Then it was 90 minutes of training. I confess I get, if I train hard. So I'm talking about the resistance training, not the running, but the resistance training, you know, 60 to 90 minutes later, I'm really hungry, but there've been days when I just skip and then the hunger passes and then later I eat, I eat more.

0 (2h 18m 35s):
I might eat twice as much later on, you know, that that's just the way it's sometimes schedules go. But what are your thoughts in terms of the nutrition science, the train, the training related effects of the post-training meal? Is it something that you try to get? Is it something that you think people should pay attention to?

2 (2h 18m 53s):
So that, that science has actually probably been the Mo the one that's changed the most in my lifetime, honestly, because I, I, I, again, we're the same age and I was falling for the same trap, you know, where I would really be focused on like, I'm S I'm risking speeding tickets, driving home from the gym Anabolic window, you know, like I, I did all that. I really did, you know, but thankfully that's been sort of debunked in, in your body. It isn't just rushing through, you know, these certain periods of time to utilize the nutrients in our body, but are able to partition them and use them over a long, much greater duration up to now, they're saying, you know, three to four hours after training five hours after training, you can still see the, you know, the benefits of, of replenishment.

2 (2h 19m 37s):
A lot of that is just, you know, I think there's a consistency element to it that just utilizing a post-workout window or a post-workout meal, even if it's within two hours or one hour is just integrating the habit of saying, listen, I just did this activity and now want to replenish some of what I lost the energy that I use to, to perform, you know, the, the exercises that I did. And just getting into the routine, knowing that, that the engine is ultimately fed by what we put in it. And the concept of replenishing the fuel lost is still a concept that I think again, different in mechanism, but still important in terms of fueling the overall performance.

2 (2h 20m 21s):
So, you know, the, the, the pre-workout period of time gives us a chance to actually have a longer window, because if that, if those nutrients are obtained, pre-workout, it's not like they're gone in that hour, that you've trained, they're still there and available for your body to use. So, you know, I think it's important to get one of the two, you know, right. Or at least make sure you're, you're consistently having one or the two, or you might risk going through all these periods of having no nutrition to support your efforts. Not only will your workouts potentially suffer in terms of the output, but then you're also not providing your body any ability to capitalize on, on an opportunity to feed it and refuel and recover.

2 (2h 21m 3s):
So I'm not very dogmatic about what specifically to, to eat pre or post workout. But I do think you should have protein surrounding your, your training, whether that be ahead of time or after protein could be a little bit hard to digest for some people. So if you do that pre-workout, and then you're finding your workouts slogging, because you don't feel good then suddenly you put that after your meal. But this whole concept of the urgency of time has thankfully been removed. And we can just learn to eat a little bit more, you know, responsibly and drive more responsibility. So we're not, you know, trying to rush home from the gym and risk, you know, killing people on the way.

2 (2h 21m 45s):
You know, I, I think, I think it's, but I think it's great because I think that that was something that it just showcases a belief that people had for so long that has since been proven to be not that important. And there's a, there's a, there's a tip of the cap towards research in a good way where it's like, all right, I think we can all agree that this isn't necessarily true anymore. And look at yourself and say, oh my God, I did that so often, like, I bet that one hook, line and sinker, but, but then realize, okay, but we can always make a change in the good thing about nutrition is those changes can happen the very next time you go to eat, you know, and you'll start to see the benefits of that. So I'm not a big believer in that strict approach to pre or post workout.

2 (2h 22m 29s):
I mean, even as far as pre-workout supplements, a lot of people don't take them. A lot of people don't like them. They don't take them. They don't like, they're not necessarily even being used as the new nutritive side of the pre-workout. They're just more new used to fuel the workout

0 (2h 22m 46s):
For me, it's a water and some form of caffeine. Okay.

2 (2h 22m 49s):
Yeah. I mean, it's whatever, you know, again, I think it's important. I do think it's important to maintain a high level of output. So if your pre-workout nutrition requires a stimulant in order to help you do that, or if your pre-work nutrition is causing you to have a harder time to train, because you're feeling full or stomach ache or something else, then that's not achieving what you're trying to do. The ultimate goal is to still be able to perform at the highest level. So whatever your nutrition is required to allow you to still do that, that is probably the most important factor of all of it.

0 (2h 23m 20s):
Great. I love the very clear and rational approach. Don't ingest anything right before your workout or near your workout. That's going to make your workout worse. And it's so simple. And yet you don't hear this because I think people will think, oh, they must have a pre-workout. They must have a postcard.

2 (2h 23m 35s):
Again, like even if there are the benefits that are to be had from whatever's being suggested is going to be easily offset by the fact that you can't perform at an output capable of driving any change. Yeah. So that, that would pretty much negate the fact that there, you know, there's no, you're not outweighing those benefits of whatever nutrient nutrient approach you took and struggling through your workout.

0 (2h 23m 55s):
Yeah. For me, the best pre-workout is a good night's sleep, hydration, caffeine music. Yeah.

2 (2h 24m 1s):
Yeah. There you go.

0 (2h 24m 3s):
It works. And then posts where I do. I do find I get quite hungry and want to eat quite a bit more and

2 (2h 24m 8s):
Well, that's a natural response. The body's going to in most people want to do that. And I think it should be fed. I worked out as you know, again, a lot of my postings on Instagram will happen at 10 o'clock at night, 10 30 at night, 11 at night. Cause I'm actually trading there. And that's where I'm taking those little breaks in between sets to actually film or post something. But like, I then go inside a dinner. So I'm eating at 11 o'clock at night, you know, it's not necessarily ideal. I'm not recommending that as a tool for anybody. I think it dispels one thing. I've never been a believer in Kenny carbs after six. Yeah.

0 (2h 24m 38s):
No, that makes no sense to me. Based on all the new, all the science of metabolism that I've seen. I think as long as you can sort of like napping, I talked to Matt Walker, one of the great sleep researchers wrote why we sleep, et cetera, you know, and has his own podcast about sleep, tremendous researcher, public communicator, about sleeping. He said, yeah, naps are fine. Provided they don't interrupt your ability to sleep well at night. Right? Simple. Right. Tell me I'm going to sleep from eight to 9:00 PM and then go to bed at midnight and not a problem. Other people, they take a 30 minute nap after lunch and they can't sleep at night. Right? Same thing with caffeine is a little different because Matt would argue the architecture of sleep can be disrupted, et cetera. But if you can eat dinner late, are carbohydrates late, actually need carbohydrates at night in order to be able to sleep.

0 (2h 25m 19s):
Whenever I've done a low carbohydrate type regimen in the, I have a hard time falling asleep, I'm just to alert. So I eat carbohydrates in needing to re restore glycogen, but also in order to make sure that I can fall asleep.

2 (2h 25m 33s):
I, I actually can, again, obviously it's already late at night, by the time I'm done eating, but like I can fall asleep within five, 10 minutes of finishing my meal, you know, because I, I do think that they have that same effect on me, but I'll never buy, I don't, I'm not bothered by the feeling of fullness. I'm not unable to sleep because of a feeling of fullness. But I do like, I do like the fact that I'm, I feel as if I'm at least replenishing what was lost through my hard training. And I do like to back it up with a dinner, I don't need to eat smaller amounts. Some people can't have that much. I will say, after a hard leg workout, I don't have the same appetite that I do after. Let's say, you know, an upper body workout. It can really disrupt my, my whole feeling of, of, of wellbeing.

0 (2h 26m 17s):
You want to eat less after you train your legs. Oh, wow. I'm the opposite

2 (2h 26m 22s):
Now because I just feel like I could feel sick to my stomach. You know,

0 (2h 26m 25s):
You're clearly training harder. I've seen the way you check. You do train very intensely.

2 (2h 26m 28s):
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I, I think it's important. I mean, I think that, again, it's that trade off between, if you're not going to train for a long period of time, then you're going to want to train harder. And again, I, I actually feel like contrary to what people might think as you age, you're better off training, harder for shorter period of time. You know, it's always within the realm of, of, of safe training. I mean, I think that's what I, I like to think this, I bring to the table like an approach that's smarter so I can train harder, you know, like not doing the dumb things I did when I was a kid. And with that, you know, trade off being a harder trainer. I think I get the results that I want because I'm able to really push it and then back off.

2 (2h 27m 12s):
And, and again, the, the, the meal feels like almost a, a physiological reward for the hard effort I put in the gym, knowing that I'm also replenishing and setting the stage for the next day to be another successful day of training, you know, or maybe not depending upon how many times a day a week I train, you know? But yeah, I, I think that it's, it's a lot less, it's, it's a lot, I hate to say it as a lot less scientific than we want to make it. And as it seems to be coming back, oftentimes like the thing that works for you is really the most important thing, because ultimately getting your ass in there and doing what you do is, is really the thing that provides the best benefit.

0 (2h 27m 50s):
Absolutely. And you know, there are many things that I would say are hallmarks of Jeff cavalier, but one of, one of them is certainly consistency. You make it happen one way or another

2 (2h 28m 1s):
Huge, I mean, consistency really is the determinant. And I, and I know that that is the hardest part for people that are and why people tend to look for the shortcut because consistency is the part that, you know, that becomes the biggest challenge. But if you could find, listen, if you could find the, I mean, you know, through what I've been trying to encourage here is like, if you can find the nutrition approach, if you can find the training approach, if you could try to find the training split, if you could try all those things that encourage you to want to go to the gym, like you're locked in at the point where you said you actually look forward to going and doing your workouts.

0 (2h 28m 33s):
I love it. I look forward to it. I mean, it's, it's, you know, actually this morning, one of my, one of our teammates for the podcast, I got workout and halfway through, I just turned him and I said, I'll never figure out why that feels so good, but it feels so good. I just, I really enjoy it. And it lets and I love to eat and it lets me eat. And I love the way it makes me feel afterward. I don't understand this concept of not enjoying the gym. Cardio is a little different, I always load the first 10 or 20 minutes of a jog. I mildly low the middle third. And by the end, I think this is the greatest thing ever. Why don't I do it all the time? And then that feeling evaporates before the next time I do it.

2 (2h 29m 8s):
Yeah, of course. I don't even remember it either. You need it again.

0 (2h 29m 11s):
Exactly. Yeah.

2 (2h 29m 12s):
I, I think if people could, if, if, if we had one gift we could give to everybody that would be the love of fitness, right? If they could be bestowed love of fitness, it would change the entire world, you know? But I think when you hear things like this, that like, Hey, that will work and that will work too. And that this will work too, you know, rather than the dogmatic, one way only approach, which could be, become discouraging for people. Then I think it becomes a little bit uplifting, like, well, I've never tried that I've actually never tried a total bias split or I've never tried, you know, that style of eating, like it becomes encouraged, you know, you might want to explore and then you might finally get locked in and say, I really liked this. And then you're off and running.

0 (2h 29m 52s):
Well, that's what I so enjoy about your content. We would be remiss if we didn't briefly discuss Jesse, one of the great pleasures for me in, in watching your content and learning from it over the years is that you took on, you decide to mentor somebody, right, Jesse. And there's a, there's some poking fun back and forth between the two of you, which is very amusing. But I have to say it inspired me to do something early on in developing this podcast is I have a, a young intern who has helped me with some of the research and he's a budding. He's interested in science. He's about to go off to college, but he also got really into fitness. We would watch the videos of you guys. He was helping me get the Instagram content out early on.

0 (2h 30m 32s):
And one thing that was just, it was such a pleasure to be able to pass along knowledge. And, and of course I'm learning from him. This is always the way it works. And we learned from teaching and we learned from students, but it's been great to see Jesse's progress. It's amazing. I've gotten to meet him in person just now and, and he's, he has grown. He's changed physically. And, and I think that you mentioned a love of fitness. I think that in a D one of the best ways to be consistent is to take on the responsibility of teaching others. Once one has proficiency in something. So maybe you just tell us a little bit about how that's going, how is Jesse doing and where, where, where does he need a little more work? Where is he thriving? I'm impressed by the progress?

2 (2h 31m 12s):
Well, we have a, I mean, physically, we can obviously see the, the, the changes, you know, the list of things to work on are, is, is immense. It's so long for him to continue to improve. But now actually, you know, in reality, Jesse, the story of Jesse was that I knew Jesse prior to starting even athlete X. And as a matter of fact, I think the funny thing is the very first video that was ever posted on my channel was a video that he shot as, I don't know, a 13 year old or something. And I said, can you just film this for a second? I was over there, you know, training members of the family. So he then offered off the college, went into film, realized he had much greener pastures at athlete next, instead of becoming the next Scorsese or something.

2 (2h 31m 53s):
And he decided to come work with me. And, you know, the expectations in the beginning were just to edit videos or just to, you know, help with various aspects of, of like my day to day that I don't think I was equipped to really handle and grow the business anymore. So then, you know, look at, by, by virtue of being in that environment, there's an interest. I think if I worked in a gym, I might become interested in working out. And though that might, it's not a commercial gym, it's sitting right behind my office, you know, a window there became an interest in one and to work out a little bit. And it wasn't even an intentional experiment, you know, to put Jesse there.

2 (2h 32m 33s):
I just thought that he's a very likable person. He has a very funny personality. He's also the, every man, you know, in some ways, you know, as I'm sure maybe you experienced sometimes like I'm the guy that this is comes naturally for me is what people will say. Like, this is what you do for a living. Like this is what you like. There's a, there's an element of disconnect in terms of the relate-ability, because I do do this for a living. I can't deny that I do work with professional athletes. So like, there's a level of interest in this above and beyond. But for him, he's just the kid who wants to train. Maybe if he rolls out of bed before 11:00 AM and you know, doesn't have a date on Friday night, but that's the guy everybody could relate to and watching him transform.

2 (2h 33m 16s):
And I love the fact that even the interest level, you know, was up and down, like it wasn't a consistent for him because he was like, you know, part interested in them. Maybe not as for three months and then interested in that. And I never pushed it on him. This is, again, this was no orchestrate experiment for me. It was just like, if you want to do this, then do this. And also from a standpoint of like, lending my help or expertise to him, like I said, with my son, I'm not going to force it on anybody. I don't want to do that to anybody. I don't think that that's ever going to spark that desire for longterm adoption. So he got more interested. He started to learn more about it. He was just the videos that we're filming. He films, the videos that we're filming. And he's learning through what I'm saying.

2 (2h 33m 57s):
He's becoming more of a student of the field. And I have to say his knowledge in the field has grown with the growth of his physique. And he's put into practice. Some of the things that I say he's put in practice, some things he hears other places, and he winds up, you know, improving as he goes. And he winds up starting to love this. Like he, you never thought he would, but it's great to see anybody grow. And whether that be physically or the be emotionally, or whether it be, you know, just in, in their career, it's great to see somebody grow. And I, I like to tease him funny admission here. There are times when the jabs that I will throw at him are something that we might know ahead of time of what I'm going to say to him.

2 (2h 34m 43s):
People will say you're so mean to him. I can't believe it. You're so abusive. And I'm like, dude, honestly, we laugh after it's over. It's good. We're good. You know, so, you know, of course, but like

0 (2h 34m 55s):
They're tougher than he looks is what you're saying.

2 (2h 34m 57s):
It's definitely,

0 (2h 34m 59s):
He's got the big beard he's

2 (2h 34m 60s):
Got he's it looks more manly than I do. I can't grow a beard. I, I don't. Yeah. I mean, believe me, he's, he's totally alpha. And I'm like, you know, quickly becoming, you know, the second, the second star of this show, but like, you know, he's definitely contributed and people enjoy his presence for sure.

0 (2h 35m 17s):
Yeah, I certainly do. And I think that as you pointed out, he's a kind of a proxy and a template for, for everybody. We can relate to him because even though I've trained for many years, you know, it's, it's been a struggle. You went through graduate school, post-doc, you know, it made it happen one way or another, but with more or less attention and admittedly through, you know, waxing and waning levels of, of motivation. Although, you know, I'm fortunate that I do enjoy it.

2 (2h 35m 40s):
Well, I think is nice about it too, is that it's, it's a realistic expectation that we set. I think, you know, there was, you're, you're showcasing what the journey actually looks like. And he's been on the journey for again, you know, devotedly for, let's say the last year and a half, but on the journey for five years, if I could make the gains that he did starting when I was trained, started training at, you know, 14, 15, and you're saying, Hey, by 20, you're going to have the strength levels. He does the physique that he does the knowledge that you've gained. Like that seems like a blink of an eye. Now looking back, you know, at 46 years old, I'm like, holy cow. Like I, I think it took me 20 years, you know, 15, 20 years.

2 (2h 36m 21s):
So yeah, to just even start to get into a groove for him to do it at, in, in a period of five years, it doesn't seem long. Whereas there's people that will criticize his journey like, oh, this is taking so long. It's so like there's such an instant gratification, you know, that people will seek, luckily that's the minority. Most people are like, this is amazing, you know, but I think that it becomes very uplifting because not only is it relatable, but the journey is real and people can, and people can appreciate that. Like, this is what will happen if you actually put in consistent hard work and you'll watch him transform, go back and watch the videos like you look at. We like to oftentimes throw back to videos where he appeared as, you know, smaller Jessie, but also shy Jesse arms crossed, head down, not making eye contact with the camera, you know, to where now he's got his own skits and intros.

2 (2h 37m 8s):
You know, it's like, it's, it's, it's funny because the confidence with the, with the growth of physique came competence too, which is great.

0 (2h 37m 14s):
Absolutely. It's pretty soon. It'll be his world and we're all living in it, as they say, well, on behalf of myself and all the listeners, I really want to thank you. First of all, for the discussion today, I learned an immense amount, even though I thought I knew your content. Well, I still learned an immense amount, many things we could deploy from when to stretch, how to stretch the skipping rope. We talked about nutrition and we talked about he called training regimens. And what I love about all of this now that you've given us is that there's a, there's a backbone of logic, you know, and, and some consistent themes indeed about consistency. But the logical backbone, I think, is what will enable people to really show up to the table and stay there for training consistently over time.

0 (2h 38m 0s):
And as you said, the gift of fitness is an immense gift. I can't thank you enough. I know you're an incredibly busy human being with kids and dogs in a, in a marriage, in a,

2 (2h 38m 10s):
Oh my pleasure. I'm happy. I was able to make it work cause that really I've been watching your stuff for a while. And I really, I love the science of it. I liked the way you think, and it just, you know, it was, I'm just really fortunate that I was able to do it.

0 (2h 38m 23s):
I feel very gratified in hearing that and honored to have you here. So thank you so much.

2 (2h 38m 28s):
Thank you.

0 (2h 38m 29s):
Thank you for joining me for my discussion with Jeff cavalier. I hope you found it as interesting and as actionable as I did. If you're learning from and are enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's the best zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and on apple. That's also a terrific way to support us and on both Spotify and apple, you can leave us up to a five star review. If you have comments and feedback, the best place to leave that is at the comments section on the YouTube channel there. If you have suggestions about specific episodes or you have specific questions, or you have suggestions about guests that you'd like us to interview on the Huberman lab podcast, we read those comments and indeed we take them to heart when developing future content.

Momentous (2h 39m 10s):
In addition, please check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning of today's podcast, that's the best way to support this podcast. And for those of you that are interested in supplements discussed today, or on previous episodes of the Huberman lab podcast, again, we partnered with momentous supplements. You can find the supplements related to this podcast at live momentous.com/huberman.

2 (2h 39m 29s):
If you're not already following us on social media, please do. So we are Herberman lab on both Twitter and Instagram there. I cover science and science-based tools. Some of which overlap with the content of the Superman lab podcast, and other of which is distinct from the information covered on the Huberman lab podcast. So again, it's Huberman lab on Instagram and also Huberman lab on Twitter. If you're not already subscribed to our so-called neural network newsletter, please do so.

0 (2h 39m 53s):
You can do that by going to Huberman lab.com, go to the menu and click on newsletter. It costs nothing to sign up or to receive the newsletters they come out about once a month. And they contain summaries of actionable protocols links to relevant scientific research. We do not share your email with anybody and our privacy policy is made clear at that site. In fact, if you'd like to see some previous or download those, you can download those as PDFs without having to sign up at all. Simply by going to Huberman lab.com, go again into the newsletter tab under the menu. And there you'll see, for instance, a toolkit for sleep that lists out all the things you can do to enhance your sleep. It lists out the so-called neuro-plasticity super protocol for enhancing learning, and teaching and so on.

0 (2h 40m 35s):
Again, that's the neural network newsletter@hubermanlab.com and last, but certainly not least thank you for your interest in science.