0 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman lab podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology in ophthalmology at Stanford school of medicine. Recently, I had the pleasure of hosting two live events, one in Seattle, Washington in one in Portland, Oregon, both entitled the brain body contract, where I discussed science and science related tools for mental health, physical health and performance. My favorite part of each evening, however, was the question and answer period that followed the lecture. I love the question and answer period, because it gives me an opportunity here directly from the audience as to what they want to know most and indeed to get into a bit of dialogue. So we really clarify what are the underlying mechanisms of particular tools, how best to use the tools for things like focus and sleep.

0 (46s):
We also touched on some things related to mental health and physical health. It was a delight for me. And I like to think that the audience learned a lot. I know that many of you weren't able to attend those events, but we wanted to make the information available to you. So what follows, this is a recording of the question answer period, from the lecture in Seattle, Washington, I hope you'll find it to be both interesting and informative. I'd also like to thank our sponsors of these live events. The first is momentous supplements, which is our partner with the Huberman lab podcast, providing supplements that are of the very highest quality that ship international and that are arranged in dosages and single ingredient formulations that make it possible for you to develop the optimal supplement strategy for you.

0 (1m 27s):
And I'd also like to thank our other sponsor, which is inside tracker, which provides blood tests and DNA tests. So you can monitor your immediate and long-term health progress. I'd also like to announce that there are two new live events scheduled. The first one is going to take place Sunday, October 16th at the Wil turn theater in Los Angeles. The other live event will take place Wednesday, November 9th at the beacon theater in New York city. Tickets to both of those events are now available online@hubermanlab.com slash tour that's Huberman lab.com/tour. I do hope that you learn from an enjoy the recording of the question and answer period that follows this and last, but certainly not least thank you for your interest in science.

0 (2m 16s):
What is your most used protocol? I'm assuming that you mean the protocol that I use the most. I genuinely do the morning sunlight viewing in this evening. I went and looked at the sunset every single evening, and I absolutely do 10 to 30 minutes of some nons sleep, deep rest protocol every single day, every single day. The reason I called it non sleep deep rest is because while I love the classic traditions of and things like yoga Nera, my fear was that if I called things yoga Nera, that people would get spooked. But I also have to say that I rather loathe the fact that scientists use so many fancy terms, that it also vaults information from the very people that fund the work.

0 (3m 5s):
So I have a kind of an ax to grind with the scientific community too. So nons sleep deep rest was my attempt to put my arms around a number of different things like yoga Nira, which I have great reverence for and other tools like that. I do that usually in the early afternoon, or if I wake up first thing in the morning and I haven't slept enough or not that well, I'll do 30 minutes of yoga Nira. And I feel terrific after that, I'll just mention a brief anecdote. I, I learned about yoga Nira while researching a book that I never wrote that may or may not ever be published. I went and spent a week in a trauma center and addiction treatment center in Florida and saw some amazing work of some amazing people and some amazing transformations.

0 (3m 51s):
And it was a big part of their daily routine for these people to do yoga, Nera and nons sleep deep rest. And I thought they're really onto something here. So almost religiously for me every day, 10 to 30 minutes, not that it matters, but the CEO of Google's really into NSD R I don't know him, but there's, he's written about that. A number of times in Seattle, sunrise varies from 4:30 AM to 9:00 AM, depending on season, are you recommending to vary or wake up outside time with the seasons somewhat? You know, you don't need to see the sun cross the horizon. That would be great, but not everyone can wake up with the sun. You want to get so-called low solar angle, sunlight.

0 (4m 32s):
Why? Cuz of that yellow blue contrast that we talked about before many people wake up before the sun is out. If that case, if you want to be awake, turn on as many bright lights as you can up here. I don't does anyone here? You don't have to admit this if you don't want to, but maybe nod or raise your hand. If you're comfortable with being that in the winter, you feel less well or typically in the transition. Yeah, it's huge up here. It's really, it's amazing. And then when you're on campus or that's where I've spent time and you see Rainier and it's like, the blossoms are out, you feel almost high because that's dopamine, you know, animals that have white Pelles in the winter. And then it turns dark in the summer and spring months that pathway, the melanin pathway is from Tyro scene, which is the precursor to dopamine and also to melanin production in the fur.

0 (5m 21s):
So the whole system is linked. It's not rigged, it's linked. So what do I suggest? I suggest in the winter months getting 30 minutes of sunlight viewing, I know it's a lot, but it's a, it's much better than feeling lousy all day. And then the real key in the winter is to try and catch some sunlight before it goes down. If you're indoors and it goes down and then you go outside and it's dark, your brain and body don't really know where they are in time. And then you flip on Ozark and you're watching Ozark. And then you really don't know where you are in time. I have one more episode. Don't tell me what happened. That shows when I was at postdoc, I used to recommend the wire to my competitors.

0 (6m 5s):
True. I go to sleep fired up, ready and excited to do whatever it takes. When I wake up that drive is depleted. Why and what can I do? Interesting. Have not heard that one before, but if I were to venture a guess, you know, we didn't spend much time tonight talking about the autonomic nervous system, this kind of Seesaw that takes us from very alert, potentially panicked, but to very, very deep sleep. Even, you know, God forbid we go into a coma it's cuz the parasympathetic nervous system is overactive relative to the sympathetic nervousness. The Seesaw autonomic function, you may be sleeping very, very deeply. And when you are in deep, deep rest, the last thing you want to do is get into that forward center of mass thinking, planning, predicting right in, you know, again in yoga Nira, again, non sleep, deep breath.

0 (6m 53s):
There's this common theme in the script of going from thinking and doing and predicting to being, and feeling they say, and I'm not making fun of them as the moment I hear that, I go just wanna be and feel, what are you doing? You're actually just moving into sensation, but no planning, right? There's nothing mysterious about it. Sensation, but no planning now in sleep a very deeply parasympathetic sleep state what's happening. You actually, that visual aperture is actually so big, right? You're not in panoramic vision. Your eyes are actually closed. Space and time are from past present. And future are invited into your thinking. You're in a deep, deep state of relaxation and it may be Dustin that when you're waking up, you're having a hard time transitioning outta that because you're sleeping so deeply.

0 (7m 43s):
You may be waking up mid sleep cycle. Many people find it useful to set an alarm so that they wake up at the end of a 90 minute so-called ultradian cycle. There are some sleep apps that do this on the phone. I can't recall their names, but so rather than sleeping seven hours, you might be better off sleeping six or seven and a half hours, right? Waking up at the end of one of these 90 minute cycles, try that. That would be consistent with what we know about the biology. But I think it's common to, if you sleep very deeply to wake up and not necessarily wanna spring out of bed, I've heard of these people that just wanna spring out of bed and attack the day, JCA willing four 30 in the morning, his Casio phone of watch. I'm seeing his watch when it's like eight.

0 (8m 25s):
For me, I'm like, wow, like again, these people are amazing. I must be doing something wrong, but these are, you know, I don't wake up that way. You know? Like ticker. I'm like, I want water. I want sunlight. 90 minutes later. I want caffeine. Yeah. What are some of your favorite books that have had the biggest impact on you? Kyle G thank you, Kyle. Gosh. So many, you know, for nonfiction. Well Oliver Sack's autobiography on the move had a profound impact on me. You know, people hated him. The scientific community tried to kick him out.

0 (9m 5s):
They said horrible things about him created all sorts of scandals. It wasn't until awakenings became a blockbuster movie that suddenly he got appointments at NYU in Columbia. Then now they wanted him back. And the revered neurologist like incredible, right. But he was also a, a real seeker in the cuddle fish thing. And he had a lot of internal struggles too. Some of which I relate to some of which I don't actually been in touch with his former partner because it actually moved to Topanga canyon for a short while just cuz Oliver lived there. I thought if I go there, I'll actually finish this book. Guess what? Just moving someplace. Doesn't allow you to finish a book.

0 (9m 46s):
He lived in Topanga. So I was like, that's the key? It didn't work. And people were wondering why I was hanging around their house all the time. Cuz it was Oliver's former home. So that's an amazing book and tells you my obsessive nature. The other books that have had a profound influence on me, I would say in the nonfiction realm. Well I learned how to make a decent steak and a few other simple recipes, not well from Tim Ferris's book, the four hour chef, cuz I really needed help. That was a fun one. I like Robert Green's book mastery because I've had amazing mentors. And that book is all about finding mentors and assigning mentors to you, even if you don't know them.

0 (10m 32s):
And as you can tell from my stories about Oliver who I never met and I, and a few other folks that I've just decided that they don't know it, but I'm mentoring them. That they're mentoring me. Excuse me. That book was, was really important for me and that mentor, mentee relationships always involve a breakup either by death or by decision or by consequence your circumstance rather there's something happens and there's supposed to break. You're not supposed to apprentice with somebody forever. That was an interesting book for me. I would say in the, in the fiction realm, I would say in the fiction realm, it's all childhood books, cuz it's been a long time since I've read fiction. I read a lot of poetry. I'm a big Wendell Berry fan.

0 (11m 13s):
I like poetry because poetry to me is, is like the subconscious, the structure is all messed up and you think you understand what they're talking about, but you don't really know. And so it always feels important and consequential, even though, you know, it's your own interpretation. And then I love the psychologist. I love young. I love Ericsson. I love the psychologist and could read endlessly about the early days of attachment theory and things like that because I find that stuff to be fascinating. So those books have been a lot of fun and I love picture books with animals. And so if you can get ahold of Joel SAR, Tori's Instagram account, the photo arc, he decided to take pictures of every animal on the planet, especially the ones that are endangered.

0 (12m 3s):
He's a amazing photographer, but his books are even better. So if you like animal books, what excites you most about the future research of mental health treatment, particularly anxiety and depression. Ooh, Michael, thank you Michael. Well there, I think that we're in an exciting time. I, I am, I'll just reveal my biases. I'm quite pessimistic at the idea that we're gonna have better medication soon for most things. What I do think we are starting to approach is a time in which we understand how broad categories of drugs impact broad categories of chemicals, which kind of shift our mind in broad categories of directions.

0 (12m 50s):
What does all that mean? I think we're starting to realize that because there are different receptors for all these chemicals all over the brain body, that that side effect list drug is unlikely to exist for mental health, but that the combination of maybe some pharmacology, but especially behavioral tools, people actually learning how to drive this thing that we call our nervous system is potentially helpful. Maybe very helpful now in cases like schizophrenia, autism, and I didn't put those next to one another for any reason, by the way, O C D eating disorders.

0 (13m 32s):
And I'm very mindful of the fact that, you know, anorexia is the most lethal of all the psychiatric disorders, right? Amazing and sad fact. I think for those conditions, we are soon going to enter a time in which it's going to be combination behavioral drug therapy and yes, brain machine interface. I don't mean putting chips down below the skull. I think there's going to be, and there are things happening now of people using devices like virtual reality, as well as transcranial magnetic stimulation, placing a magnet on a particular location in the head combined with a particular maybe drug, maybe psychedelics, maybe not to enhance plasticity.

0 (14m 13s):
I urge a vote for psychedelics and I want to make a serious point about psychedelics five years ago when I, well, four years ago when I started doing a bit of public facing stuff, I was absolutely terrified to say that word terrified. I thought I'd lose my job. I really did. I thought Donald a psychedelics and I'll be very honest. You know, I, for me, I, I think that the clinical data on MDMA and on psilocybin are very interesting, very interesting. I don't think they are the first and only pass at rewiring the brain, but it is clear that the brain can enter a state of heightened learning capacity, but it needs to be directed towards something.

0 (15m 0s):
The goal of opening plasticity, just, it opens plasticity. That's not the goal it's like running the goal isn't running. The goal is to run in a particular direction. So what I think is really needed is to drive that plasticity in particular directions. And I, I would love to see more directed use of those in of course the safe clinical setting where it's appropriate and a guest on the podcast, Matthew Johnson, who's at Johns Hopkins. I asked him, what's the deal with the microdosing? And you know what his answer was? I was very surprised. He said macro dose. And I thought, okay, I'm not a guy who, you know, I'm not into, I'm not, I'm not a pushing this.

0 (15m 45s):
I'm not a proponent. I said, you're kidding me. Why, why, why would you say this guy runs an NIH funded lab at John's Hopkins school of medicine thought why? And he said, because the one session with a trained professional that's triggering rewiring plasticity, that's guided is as far as they know from the data, you can go back and listen to, these are his words, not mine, but I he's. The expert in this area are encouraging plasticity in a particular direction. And he thinks that that's far more useful than just kind of nudging the system a little bit without any particular goal or outcome. Very interesting and very surprising.

0 (16m 27s):
And again, a trained academic at a one of the most elite institutions in the world. I think we're in very exciting times for those compounds. And they're like, there are studies at Stanford and elsewhere on ketamine and other things, but it's early days, young people should be very cautious. Young, young people and adults should be cautious, especially people with preexisting psychiatric issues and people who have the, for addiction. Although some of those compounds are being used to treat addiction. So I'd be an idiot and I would be lying if I didn't say that it is very exciting time. It's for psychedelic therapies.

0 (17m 12s):
Where do you see the biggest area? And I've done only one clinical trial. True. I was a part I, I took part in one clinical trial. So I don't speak from a lot of experience there just a little bit. I was a subject in that trial. Where do you see the biggest area for performance enhancement within the elite athletes and operators that already hit marks of proper sleep and nutrition, Meg young. Thanks for your question, Meg. Yeah, I think that, well, first of all, very few of them hit marks for proper sleep. But for those that do so once you have your sleep dialed in and you got your nutrition dialed in and the motivational component is there, I think where there's a lot of work still to be done and where people can really get outsized effects is in this weird little cavern of human existence that we call creativity.

0 (18m 2s):
And I didn't have time to talk about it tonight, but there's a very unique brain state that we call creativity, which is taking preexisting neural maps and starting to combine them in unique ways to create new ways of performance. Performance can be basically summarized in any domain as essentially four stages. You have unskilled skilled mastery, which is when the brain can generate movements or cognitive comput that are create very predictable outcomes. And then there's this fourth tier, this fourth layer, which is virtuosity and virtuosity by definition means inviting back in a component of uncertainty.

0 (18m 43s):
What this looks like in terms of operators or this looks like in terms of athletes, or even we can say musicians or people who are in the cognitive fields or poets or writers, is what it means is introducing that uncertainty about what's gonna happen next. And the way to do that is to destabilize the system. In other words, to create states of mind in which there are literally sensory disruptions. It's like, what I would like to see is more training in a kind of fun house of mirrors type environment. That's when you start to see incredible performances emerge and virtuosos invite in uncertainty, they actually don't know what they're going to do next.

0 (19m 29s):
And so this becomes a little bit of a vague concept. And what I'm about to tell you next might seem a little silly, but one of the best ways to access creative states is to no surprise use your visual system to view things that are highly unstable and uncertain. I don't just love fish tanks. I love staring at videos of aquariums in Tokyo and actually watching the fish because it's completely unpredictable. There's some evidence that doing things like that or people would say, oh, I was in the shower. I took a walk in nature. And then I had this idea. I actually don't think it was the Walker, the shower it's that nature is filled with unpredictable visual stimuli, auditory stimuli.

0 (20m 13s):
When you can predict what's going to happen next, you have very little opportunity to up level your game. So to speak. It's only by way of unpredictable sensory input that you can do that. So if you're a coach or you're working with people who are very high level performers, do you want them to stand on one leg and spin around and then do what they're doing? Not necessarily what you want to do is try and get them into brain states that are different than the brain states that they're in. When they normally enter their practice, the liminal state between sleep and waking, excuse me, the liminal state between sleep and waking is a very powerful one for accessing creativity. Many people, access ideas, as they're waking up in the morning, they have great insights, other people while strolling in nature.

0 (20m 58s):
I don't think it's the strolling or the waking up. I think it's the lack of, as we call it top down regulation on rules, you are able to access combinations of neural maps that are unusual. So you can play with this a little bit. A lot of people throughout history have used compounds drugs to do this right, great writers would get drunk and then try and write or wake up. And they would the, the amount of self abuse that people including athletes and creators put themselves through to try and capture these windows of cognitive ability is pretty intense. And I, I don't think that's a good idea. I think one should be an Explorer and try and find these cognitive states in ways that are non-destructive.

0 (21m 42s):
I'm starting to sound like my mother with all this Heel flips on lock. No kick flips. Next question. The there's some skateboarders in the audience. My first non-biological family, there's some amazing skateboarders in this audience and I'm not gonna be the one doing a kick flip anytime soon, but they're great to have one of the reasons we built the podcast with the help of the great Mike playback is because I learned a long time ago that if you want things done, right, and you want to do them outside the lane lines, and you want to have control over how things come across, you do it with skateboarders. Cuz I didn't come from a community where I, you know, I didn't have parents at my sports games and things like that.

0 (22m 27s):
So thanks to the skateboarders and the misfits and the, and the those folks. Do you have any tips on how to improve memory? Yes. Ron Vare, yes. Okay. This is a wild literature and I love it and it's changing the way that I do things. I thought that to remember things you're supposed to get really, really excited, really focused and remember them and guess what? That's not how you do it. There's there are data. And there are stories going back to medieval times that they used to teach kids things and then throw them in the river. There's a beautiful annual review of neuroscience written by the late James McGaugh brilliant researcher who taught me that in this review.

0 (23m 12s):
And it turns out that if you want to remember something you want to spike adrenaline after you acquired that information after that means the double espresso and the ice bath after you study for math immediately after. And you think about this, you know, that makes perfect sense. Right? Think about the one trial learning that nobody wants to experience, which is a car accident or some traumatic thing. You didn't get the spike of adrenaline first. You got the spike of adrenaline after. So again, you know, I discouraged the use of excessive stimulants or you know, anything like that. But if you're going to try and remember information, you need to get your brain and body into a high autonomic arousal state.

0 (23m 60s):
Literally you need to deploy adrenaline into your system after you have made the attempt to learn some information so much so that if you give people a beta blocker after learning emotional information, they don't learn it as well. Incredible, just incredible data in animals and humans. This is the, the beautiful work of Larry Kay hill at UC Irvine and James McGaugh. So that's how I would focus on remembering things better. And it's also true that if you tell yourself that something's really important to you, you'll, you'll be able to learn it better. If you meet people and they tell you their name and you forget two seconds later, well, you should probably be thinking, and now I do this. I meet people and I think, okay, what, what terrible thing did this person do?

0 (24m 41s):
Just try and spike my adrenaline or something like that. It's a terrible trick, but I haven't figured out a better way, but that's actually one that data supported way to do that easily. A dozen or more studies in humans on that very topic. How do you manage social media addiction, Paul? Oh, well we should be careful with the use of the word addiction because here, I think it's entirely appropriate when you are engaging in a behavior over and over and over again. And you're thinking to yourself, this isn't even that interesting. You're officially addicted. That's the litmus test for addiction. Not this feels so good. People talk about the dopamine hits of social media.

0 (25m 22s):
Those only come at the beginning, but then when you find yourself scrolling, you're like, what am I doing? Maybe it's that narrow visual aperture. You're a hypnotized chicken, but maybe also you are seeking more dopamine hits because guess what? That dopamine wave pool is depleted. At least for that activity, it is true that dopamine, you have a baseline and then you have peaks on, on that ride on that baseline. I do think that we can have dopamine for one behavior, not for another, but it's a, it's a generalized phenomenon. So how do you manage it? You have to stop seeking within social media. And so I've taken on the practice of turning off my phone for a couple hours each day.

0 (26m 5s):
It's incredibly hard. People get really upset too, by the way, you haven't noticed these tethers that people expect. We recorded a podcast recently. And it, so I, I don't wanna go into too much depth now about attachment and grief. And you know, we all have a map. Now you don't understand what the maps are of space, time and a dimension called closeness to everyone that we know space, where they are time when they are dead alive. When will I see them again, et cetera, and closeness. And the phone has allowed us to tap into space time in this closeness map, which define all our attachments on a very regular basis.

0 (26m 47s):
So you can understand why it's so valuable to people. You know, the plane lands and everyone's texting the planes, take off, everyone's texting. It's like, where are you? Well, the plane's in the air. There's this thing called flight tracker. No one cares about that anymore. You want to hear from the person? So I do think that I used to do an every odd hour of the day. My phone was off and like half the relationships in my life disappeared. They couldn't talk, they couldn't tolerate it. I loved it, but I loved them too. So I would say take breaks. And I would say at least an hour. And if you find yourself excited to get back on the phone, that excitement, that is the dopamine system. So you can kind of learn where it is for you. But if you find yourself scrolling mindlessly and it's not doing anything for you, you are driving that wave pool down, down, down, down, down.

0 (27m 34s):
So hopefully that analogy will help. It's weird to call myself Dr. Huberman in my business. If you refer to yourself in the third person, it means you're officially a narcissist. So I'm just gonna start with, were you nervous tonight? If so, what did you do to prepare Brianne? You saw my nervousness, didn't you? No, the, I asked myself that question. I was excited and I think I'm good at lying to myself in telling myself that autonomic arousal that might be nervousness is excitement. But in, in truth, I wasn't, I was was, and am really excited to tell you all these stories and about biology. I know this might sound like a little bit of a line, but I actually don't feel myself as a, as a, like a person when I do the podcast or I do this stuff.

0 (28m 22s):
I took a walk before I got here and I have to be careful. There are only two topics that make me cry. One is talking about my bulldog. The other is talking about my graduate advisor. So I have to be very careful, but I took a walk and I imagined that they were here and I know, and don't make me cry. Lex Friedman made me cry on a podcast and it was really unfair. And he was like digging and digging. And there are a few people in the audience that know Costello. And it's like, you know, and I just kept thinking to myself before coming in here, like, you know, I, I love them and miss them. And I Costello would be entirely bored with this whole thing. So I distracted myself a bit and not so nervous. I do get nervous about things. Sure. I'm human.

0 (29m 3s):
But when it comes to biology, I think I still feel like that little kid who just wants to tell you all this stuff, you know, so, you know, can't help, but as learning from failure equal to learning from success is one more efficient than the other. Rachel, thanks for your question. Well, on a trial by trial basis, we know that when you fail at an attempt on the next attempt, your four brain is in a position to, to engage better. And this makes total sense, right? You feel that frustration and you want to get the next one, right? Well, you're harboring, or I should say funneling more neural resources, your focus that aperture tightens. Now you have to be mindful of that too, because when you have a failure and then you're like, you're gonna hit the bulls.

0 (29m 47s):
I'm thinking about a dart board, cuz I'm terrible at darts, you know, sober, I'm terrible at darts. I don't even drink. So that next trial part of the problem is, is that focus can narrow so much that you can start to lose access to information that might help you. If you were just to relax a little bit and dilate that focus a little bit, but in general, on a trial by trial basis focuses the cue that your nervous system is going to be positioned to learn better on the next trial. Now in terms of life experiences, gosh, I wish for everyone, fewer failures and more successes, but you know, failures keep you humble. And I've had a lot of 'em. I mean, if people ever wanted and they, you know, I'd be happy to tell you about, I mean, I've made a ton of mistakes in life, like ton of mistakes.

0 (30m 32s):
Some of those were mistakes of persistence, like dumb decisions. I kept like, it's gonna change. It's gonna change. And it's clearly never gonna change. And then some were failures of misjudgment about other people or situations. And a lot of them were just plain failures. Like the experiment didn't work or the, it just wasn't the right thing. And you try and reframe those. I do think that we owe it to ourselves and to the people that we know to try and generate some wins here and there and try and help other people generate wins, you know, in running a lab over the years. And I still do you realize that you want your students to publish a paper and feel that success pretty early so that they can experience a how much work it is.

0 (31m 20s):
So they pick problems wisely, but B so they can feel that like, oh, I can do this. And I think that, you know, this gets into the psychological as well. I think that yes, failures help, but successes help. And there, I think, you know, I function best in a team. And I think that for those of you that are feel like you're fighting some challenge alone. I do think that there are great resources to be had in trying to access other, you know, other people as sources of support. I, I think that that's a great tool. There's this whole literature scientific literature around social connection and how that can help us reframe motivation and goals.

0 (32m 3s):
Anyway, maybe that's a topic to, to expand on another time. But failure is important on a trial trial by basis. People who don't experience enough winds for a long period of time, the brain is a prediction machine after all and they start to predict failure. So takes a bit more work to wedge oneself out of that. When are you gonna start training jujitsu? Lex made me ask Ryan Flores. Okay. Here's the story with that? L said, do you want to try jujitsu? I said, sure. L said, okay, it'll be great to show people. Beginner's mind said sure. We went and did a jujitsu class. He was very nice.

0 (32m 43s):
Nice, nice Russian, nice. Like, oh yeah. Then he puts it on the internet with me in a rear naked, him putting me in a rear naked choke. It was actually Lex Friedman choking out Andrew Huberman there. I just talked about myself in the third person. Damnit edit that one. I have not had the time for jujitsu. I like my ears the way they are. You know. Have you ever seen these people that do jujitsu their ears literally look like stumps? No, I, I should do it. It, it looks like a great sport. And unlike the other sports I've been involved in my, my life boxing, please don't do it. It's not healthy skateboarding and all this, you, you don't really damage your head doing jujitsu.

0 (33m 25s):
So no I'm gonna get you back for that one LA okay. Can you go through oh wow. John Edwards. There's a joke that my friends used to tell about the supplements I take that used to say, someone would say, what supplements do you take? And they would just go all of them. I don't take all of them, but I have been very systematic for about 30 years. I've been interested in compounds that change the nervous system. And I do think that the, the events of the last few years have changed the way that people view supplements. I think that more people are starting to think about how to take better care of their health. And they, people are realizing that obviously great sleep mindsets, social connection, exercise, nutrition, and so forth are very important.

0 (34m 14s):
But I, I actually don't know anybody. Granted, I run with a strange crowd, but I don't know anybody that doesn't take something nowadays. You know, I could go through the whole list, but I would say the most fundamental things and there's no product pitch here. The most fundamental things are the things that are going to support your kind of foundational health. So for that's going to mean mainly getting either by food sources or supplements is gonna be getting sufficient amounts of these essential fatty acids. So important for some people that's taking liquid fish oil. For some people it's capsule, something that's eating fish. I don't like the way fish taste unless I'm in Seattle, by the way, the seafood here is amazing, not so much in California.

0 (34m 56s):
So I think the essential fatty acids, and then I'm big on the data there I say, out of Stanford, Justin Sonnenberg's lab and Chris Gardner's lab that these fermented foods of which all these cultures have interesting fermented foods, fer and sauerkraut and kimchi, and, you know, pick your, pick your fermented food. That those seem to really encourage health of the gut microbiome. So I started eating a lot of those and taking no probiotics except in, you know, a few of the supplements that I was already taking. So I, I'm not trying to Dodge the question, but I think by and large, if you're eating well and doing the other foundational behaviors, well, you can get it way with, with a, a minimum of supplements D three.

0 (35m 40s):
It seems to be a lot of people deficient D three, but not everybody. So I think that those are the main ones. However, I do think that nutrition should be the primary entry point. Again, it should be behaviors first, then nutrition, then supplements, then prescription drugs, only if you need them. And then, you know, for some people, their brain machine interface like TMS and things like that are gonna be useful, but behaviors change your nervous system, no supplement actually rewires you or changes your nervous system behaviors. Do that. I hope I didn't Dodge that question entirely. I do take some of the things that we talk about on the podcast to do some focused work, sometimes alpha GPC, but lately I've been doing this whole thing of cold water exposure to spike my adrenaline, cuz I hate it.

0 (36m 24s):
And it spikes my adrenaline after learning based on the Magaw Kayhill data, what would be your best one or two pieces of advice to recommend protocols for improving learning and retention or graduate students in science and medicine. We try to sleep sometimes. Thank you, JD. Oh great. You're at UW JD. So, you know, I used to teach this course at cold spring Harbor on career development for scientists and the there's a lot in there, but the two things that are most important are I, for sake of answering this question, I would say, are, find nondestructive ways to reset your dopamine and your energy levels and do those at least every three days.

0 (37m 9s):
So for me, it was kind of a, a tough thing to take a long walk or to spend ice. It work really hard on Monday is really hard on Tuesdays. And I would not go in until the afternoon on Wednesdays and sometimes not at all. And then I go in Thursday, Friday and work really, really hard and then not at all on Saturday and then maybe do a little bit of work from home on Sunday. And I was very productive that way, that those breaks are absolutely key and it's not encouraged so much in academic or tech or maybe anything. Now I hear about so much stress and overwork. I say, you just do it and define the culture and let the results and your focus be the, the thing that defines you, not how many hours you're in there, but I realize there's a huge cognitive load and energetic load.

0 (37m 56s):
And for that, I do think these non-slip deep breath protocols are where it comes in really handy. They're at least two faculty. I know at Stanford one, who's a so-called Howard Hughes investigator who is big. Those are big deal appointments. They get tons of money, et cetera, etcetera. And they do amazing science. Most of the time these individuals certainly do and they take two 20 minute naps per day in their office. When this guy came and visited me years ago, when I was at a different university, he took the time that we were supposed to meet in my office and talk about data. He asked if he could take a nap and he gave a great talk that afternoon. So there you go. I, I do think you have to take control of your schedule and do those things.

0 (38m 36s):
And I hope that helps. And then of course, for some people exercise and so on is the way they reset. What research or work are you doing or that your colleagues are doing that you're most excited about lately? Glen? Yeah. One project in particular. I hope this paper gets accepted soon. It's been out for review forever. And if the reviewers are in the audience, please just tell us one way or the other, you know, we did a very large scale study during the pandemic. We meaning David Spiegel and I, and an amazing PhD named Maise. Yo she now is two last names, excuse me, BK, YMA BBA. And Maise we essentially equip people with remote monitoring devices and measured sleep and heart rate variability and a bunch of stress and bunch of other things.

0 (39m 21s):
And we gave them a very brief set of pro breathing protocols. And it turns out that this thing that I'm talking about a lot on the podcast, these days of this double inhale long exhale, the so-called sigh was the most effective breathing practice for allowing people to control their heart rate, variability, reduce overall heart rate access, better sleep. And these were extremely short protocols. So I'm very excited about this. I didn't discover physiological size. I love the idea that people can do a very brief protocol once a day, maybe even just while walking down the street or in a moment and actually learn to control that autonomic Seesaw better. So I'm very excited about that.

0 (40m 2s):
And then we, we are gearing up to do some studies on people who have more severe forms of anxiety and panic attack using mainly respiration, but also looking at some of these eye vision related ways of controlling the nervous system. I love that stuff. If I keep talking about it, I'm gonna give you a data presentation. So I'm gonna turn around how does dopamine factor into neuroplasticity if at all call in great question, it's a very strong trigger of plasticity so much. So in fact that there's some work that shows if you stimulate within electrode, the brain area that releases dopamine and you pair that with anything, anything even just like an eight kilohertz tone, eh, the brain remaps and it's like, oh, I love that eight kilohertz tone.

0 (40m 51s):
Remember dopamine is dumb and is just dumb. And it is just, you know, it's like Costello. When he used to this dog, I could hang a rope from a tree. This dog was so lazy. Wouldn't cross a room for a steak. You had to give the steak to him, but it would run across a field. He would run and jump on and hold onto that rope. And he would sometimes bite through his lip with like blood dripping down. I was like, oh my guys like breaking my heart. He loved every set that's dopamine turns us into idiots. He was, he was as smart about what he needed to be smart about dopamine. So if you trigger dopamine released with Ritalin Adderall to a lesser extent tyrasine and certainly please don't do this, but cocaine, amphetamine, whatever you're doing seems super interesting.

0 (41m 39s):
It's true. And that's why it's such a slippery slope. It makes anything you're doing seem interesting and important. And actually I'll use this as an opportunity to say something about the psychedelic thing earlier. One of the issues with MDMA, it's a very unusual brain state, it's high dopamine, high serotonin, completely synthetic compound. There are other things in there that it does as well. One of the problems with people I see with the pre problem with people taking MDMA just at a basic level is that if you're not pushing that towards some therapeutic outcome, music sounds amazing. Everything feels and sounds amazing, but it's a very neurochemically, you know, severe state.

0 (42m 22s):
So that's why I think if people are going to explore those things, do it as part of one of the university supported clinical trials, one of the re those drugs make everything seem interesting, even stuff that's not terribly interesting. Now they also have the potential for trauma healing capacity. These are the map studies and so on. So you have to be very careful with what you pair with dopamine and what you pair dopamine with. And for those of you that are high sensation, seeking novelty seeking, and everything's interesting to you and you want more and more and more experiences. I, you basically have a eight cylinder car in you and you need to be very careful how you drive that thing. Like any high performance automobile, it's gonna spend more time in the shop.

0 (43m 7s):
So learn to drive appropriately. What advice can you offer to future scientists who wanna make an impact? Like you have Ryan O. Boyle get tenure first? No, I'm kidding. The, so I have this weird history in science and I'm not looking for sympathy here, but my undergraduate advisor who I adored, it's like a father to me, my graduate advisor and my postdoc advisor, who I also adored all three of them died, suicide cancer, cancer, really young. So the joke in my field is you don't want me to work for you, but in all serious, all three of them had a really morbid sense of humor, all amazing people, but it is this kind of weird curse that I've had.

0 (43m 51s):
So what scientists, you know, what, what advice, you know, well, Ben Barris, the late Ben Barris died of pancreatic cancer, an amazing individual. They're actually making a documentary about Ben's life. He was transgendered. He was a totally irreverent. He said whatever. He thought he offended everybody. He was awesome. Brilliant too. Ben and I had a conversation as he was dying. I recorded a lot of conversations with him and I told him I was interested in doing public facing education. And he said, well, you're tenured now. And people are gonna be upset and they're not gonna like it. And your colleagues are probably gonna hate it. So whatever you do and you better make it good.

0 (44m 32s):
And I was like, wow, that doesn't really help much Ben. And he said, you know, you seem to have a compulsion for it. So he was right. I think that if you are excited about science share and sharing what, you know, then do that. And even if it seems super nerdy, I mean, there are these en I think they call themselves ENM, the insect people. They, I mean, they make insects seem really, really cool. And if you are excited about spindle kinetics or whatever, you know, tell people about it, I really mean it. I think that the one caveat is that I do think it's important to get a formal rigorous training in it.

0 (45m 13s):
First, I think that you will go further and faster in the long run. And there's some amazing people out there. There's a postoc at Stanford. I think his name is Ben re I think if you shorten it up on Instagram, it's actually brain B brain, cuz he works. He talks about brain science. So that's why it's weird. B B R E I N. He does a great job. And he's a really good example of someone who's still on the ascent with his career, doing serious science and doing science communication. But yet to be careful, it's time consuming. Look, people will dislike you for whatever I made the mistake. Once of saying that I eat butter. Apparently that's a sin on the internet. I like little bits of actually like a lot of butter by try and eat little bits of butter.

0 (45m 54s):
But somehow it's like, there's this idea that I eat sticks of butter. So you have to be careful. Like, I mean, the things I've heard, I heard I was dead. That was cool. The, so you have to be careful and remember everything is stamped into the, the cloud now and the, the, the metaverse or whatever it's called. So I would say here are the rules that we have at the podcast and on here's the rules that I created for myself. I truly don't do it for me. I do it cuz I think people want to hear about it, but I've been telling myself that since I was six years old, the other thing is never ever, ever do it just for your own gratification. You should really try and think is anyone gonna get anything useful out of this?

0 (46m 36s):
Potentially. That's the goal. If you're doing that, it'll work out for you. If you are thinking about how to get followers or something like that, it ain't gonna work out. That's my advice is age 66 too old for neuroplastic. No, no. I'll cut myself off to begin learning a Sandra TZA no. Did I pronounce that? Right? Thank you Sandra. No, Richard Fineman. The great Richard Fineman taught himself to draw later in life. He was also really into flotation tanks. Did you know that? Yeah, he was also into bongo, drumming, naked on the roof of Caltech Richard Fineman, you know, did so many things that would get most people fired nowadays. He's just lucky he was alive when he was, you can absolutely learn at 66 and way beyond.

0 (47m 22s):
There's an amazing study from rusty GA's lab at the salt Institute years ago, showing that even people who are very late in life, terminally ill in fact are still producing new neurons in the dentate Chis of the hippocampus. These people that were gracious enough to allow researchers to inject them with dyes that would label these neurons for analysis postmortem after they died. Absolutely you can learn. What's harder is focus. Oftentimes what's harder is sleep as well, but the same mechanisms apply. There's no evidence whatsoever that neuroplasticity disappears at any stage. Despite what hub be told the BBC, how do you tackle reading research papers?

0 (48m 3s):
You have a specific strategy and hun yes I do. I do. I, I take notes on everything I try. And so I there's four questions that we teach students and that I think that I use the first one is what's the question they're asking major and more specific. Second is what do they do? What are the like methods wise? What do they do? You don't have to know all the details of the methods necessarily, but be versed in those methods. But you have to kind of understand like, are they looking at mice? Are they looking at humans? Is this a, a, you know, did they have people in two different conditions or just one you have to understand what did they do then you ask, what did they find? And then the last question is the most important one. And you should write down the answer to this is what did they conclude?

0 (48m 47s):
And then you look back at the first question and you go, did they actually answer that question? Or is it something unrelated? And those four questions are, are essentially the way that I parse each paper, learning to parse papers is tricky for the podcast. I, I use the telephone, I call people and I Badger them and I ask them, you know, like who's doing the really good work in this area. And I spend a lot of hours doing it. And then the best way to remember science is to tell someone about it. So before each podcast I'll call someone and be like, Hey, did you know that they used to throw kids in the river after I do this and my sister, my poor sister. And she's like, yeah, my sister, by the way, does not watch the podcast. I she's a therapist. And she's like, Hey, I learned this amazing breathing technique.

0 (49m 29s):
I was like, oh yeah, really tell me about, and it's like, someone else there, I'm like, you know, I have a podcast. She's like, I don't like your podcast. Yeah. It's old, older sister, older sister. It she's not lying. What is your favorite sauce? Condiment seasoning sauce. There's one in every audience. I like the spicy stuff. We've been fermenting our own food at home. It's kind of cool. You put the, the cabbage in the stuff and the little ceramic thing outside, and then it, it goes P pop. It makes this amazing sound. And then you can like eat, make your own sour and that with peppers and like fermenting that stuff. It's really good. Okay. They're telling me one more question.

0 (50m 9s):
So we'll do two what's most important from your, ah, Gabriel, a lot of questions about ADHD for people on medication or not on medication. So I'll do, I'll answer both for people on medication. I think work with somebody really good. Who's willing to work with you to allow you to find that minimal effective dose. And also timing that dose. One of the key things that we know now is that from that waking up point in your morning until about eight or nine hours later, we've sort of named that phase one of the day, for lack of a better naming protocol.

0 (50m 54s):
The systems that release cortisol, dopamine and epinephrine are essentially more effective at producing those than they are in the later periods of the day. Which makes sense. If you think about the way that the autonomic nervous system works, etcetera. So there's an important question that I can't answer for you, but you can answer for you, which is if you're using Ritalin, Adderall, Viva these things that enhance dopa, dopa, NAIC, transmission, modal Orin, by the way, for the people in the audience like me, who didn't go to college, when these things were all in use, the numbers of people that use these compounds on and off prescription is astronomical.

0 (51m 36s):
It's incredible. I didn't realize that. I think something like 80% of college students use these at some point in incredible cuz they put you into a narrow aperture tunnel of concentration. So you want to, with a physician's support of course, to help get permission or not to figure out what time of day to take your medication. Now for people who are not on medication, I'll just go right back to what I said earlier, which is that you can train focus, but it feels terrible to train it. It is hard. Again, there are these large scale studies in China and elsewhere of people literally teaching themselves.

0 (52m 17s):
And yes, they blink although less often to focus their vision on a narrow aperture and to really battle through that agitation, stress and learn how to keep their focus. Now focus will drift, right? Focus is not a constant focus will drift and you pop out of focus date and then refocus and pop out and refocus. That's something that you can train up. I've heard from many people who've managed to train themselves off medication or to lower doses of medication. And look, some people can't do that. They absolutely have to maintain their standard medication protocols. This is a larger discussion, obviously, as it relates to ADHD, we're gonna do another episode on ADHD because the data are coming out so, so fast.

0 (52m 59s):
What future episodes are in the pipeline? David win. Okay. Thank you for that question. We have one on grief. We have an amazing episode with a guy from the Rockefeller university on the, this is, am I allowed to say it's gonna be my favorite episode. I love all the guests, but this episode just blew me away on the relationship between language, speech, dance and music. And I have no musical talent and I'm not a very good dancer. So that's being generous, generous, amazing interplay between those things, exercise in the brain O C D bulimia, binge eating disorder, Peter Tia's coming on.

0 (53m 39s):
He'll teach us about everything, medicine and longevity. And I'm kind of blanking at the moment. David Anderson from Caltech on aggression and emotional states. Amazing. And then there are a number of people, Lisa Feldman, Barrett, or Barrett Feldman. I always get it backwards. Sorry, Lisa, on emotions in the brain. And really we do take suggestions about who to bring on the podcast very seriously. What I'm we're mostly looking for are the people that no one else has heard that people haven't heard of who are not going on podcasts every week and that people should AB absolutely hear from. And then I will tell you, they're gonna kill me for saying this, but I'm gonna do it anyway.

0 (54m 21s):
We have some short series coming up with expert professionals. I'm gonna do a short series on trauma. And my hope for this series is that you'll actually get to see an exquisitely skilled trauma therapist, take someone through, excuse me, I seem so excited. I'm spitting on the audience, excuse me. So to take someone through actual trauma therapy, this isn't staged, this is somebody who's actually in a point of near suicidal grief and trauma, taking them through it in the course of the podcast, as people can see what this process actually entails, that's a, a very meaningful project to me for a number of reasons. So we're really excited about that.

0 (55m 2s):
And you know, to be honest, I feel like there's just such a treasure trove of information out there. I just want to grab it all and tell you all about it until I always say if nothing else I'll cure insomnia. So the

5 (55m 30s):
Thank you.

0 (55m 35s):
Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you so much for your time. I really appreciate everyone coming out on the weekday and I'd be remiss if I didn't say thank you for your interest in science.