1 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science and science based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine Today. my guest is Tim Ferriss. Tim Ferriss is an author, a podcaster, an investor, and is known for having a near supernatural ability to predict the future, which has allowed him to obtain success in a huge number of different endeavors. for instance, he is a five time number one New York Times bestselling author, but perhaps equally or more important to that he's also exceptionally good at teaching people how to write the entire process of writing and marketing a book.

1 (43s):
His books, the Four Hour Chef and The Four Hour Body and the Four Hour Work Week not only explain his own exploration of how to optimize and prioritize his time and learn particular skills, but he teaches you those skills as well. I think this is really what sets Tim apart. He is an exceptional learner and an exceptional teacher, and today you learn why that is. And in a characteristic Tim Ferriss way, he explains the process in a way that you can apply it. He lists out, for instance, the specific questions that you should ask when approaching any endeavor in order to get the information that you want and to make the process of learning and getting better at something and achieving great success in something that much more likely.

1 (1m 25s):
That ability that Tim has to identify the specific questions that one needs to ask and answer and the specific action steps to take in order to achieve success is really what I believe sets Tim apart from everyone else on the internet or on the bookshelf that's giving advice as to how to become good at something. Tim Ferriss is also dedicated to various philanthropic efforts, the most recent of which is the donation of several millions of his own dollars to research on Psychedelics for the treatment of otherwise intractable psychiatric challenges, such as major depression, suicidal depression, eating disorders and addiction. And he's also brought together other philanthropists, which has really galvanized the whole field of Psychedelic Research for the treatment of mental health, transforming it from what was recently kind of a fringe area of science to a mainstay that's actually funded not only by philanthropy, but by the National Institutes of Health.

1 (2m 19s):
So he's really transformed this entire scientific field into one that now is transforming the laws around Psychedelics and is providing mental health treatment for people that would otherwise suffer. Today's discussion was a particularly meaningful one because not only is Tim a pioneer in the world of Podcasting, but it also marked the nine year anniversary of his podcast, the Tim Ferriss Show. Now, as I mentioned earlier, Tim is known for being able to see around corners where predict the future. He really does seem to be about five, if not 10 years ahead of everybody else in thinking about tools for optimization in particular domains of life. And so we were very fortunate that during today's discussion he shares with us his current creative endeavors and how he's thinking about and approaching those.

1 (3m 4s):
And he also breaks down for us the process of how to think about and prioritize one's schedule, not just on the order of the day, not just on the order of the week, but really thinking about one's life as a journey and how to organize and go about that journey. So today's discussion will provide with you tremendous insight into who Tim Ferriss is and how that incredible mind of his works in order to do all the amazing things that he's done. And, of course, he teaches you how to do it. He will tell you the exact questions that you should ask and that you should answer and how to step back and think about those questions and then prioritize so that you can decide how to best invest your time.

1 (3m 45s):
I'm sure many of you're familiar with the Tim Ferriss Show. However, if you're not already subscribing to the Tim Ferriss Show, I highly recommend you do. I still go back and listen to early episodes of the Tim Fair Show and I'm a weekly listener to the new episodes. We provide a link to the Tim Fair Show in the show note captions. Also in the show note captions, you'll find links to Tim's many New York Times bestselling books and a link to his excellent weekly blog. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

Maui Nui Venison (4m 24s):
Our first Sponsor is Maui Nui Venison Maui. Nui Venison is the most nutrient dense and delicious red meat available. I've talked before on this podcast about the key importance of striving to get one gram of Protein per pound of body weight. Now, when one strives to do that, it's also important to maximize the quality Protein to calorie ratio. In other words, you don't want to consume a lot of extra calories in order to get your quality Protein Maui Nui Venison in having an extremely high quality Protein and nutrient to calorie ratio allows you to do that very easily. And in addition to that, Maui Nui Venison is delicious. I particularly like their bone broth, which has an unmatched 25 grams of Protein per hundred calories. I also love their ground Venison and their Venison steaks. All of them are absolutely delicious. If, you'd like to try Maui Nui Venison, go to Maui Nui Venison dot com slash Huberman and get 20% off your first order. Again, that's Maui Nui Venison dot com slash Huberman to get 20% off.

LMNT (5m 21s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Element. Element is an electrolyte drink that has everything you need. That is the electrolytes, sodium, magnesium, and potassium. But nothing you don't, which means no sugar. It's critical that we get electrolytes because every cell of our body, but in particular our nerve cells, our neurons rely on electrolytes in order to function properly. With Element, it's very easy to ingest the correct ratios of electrolytes. They come in these little packets, they're really delicious. You mix them up with anywhere from eight to 16 to 32 ounces of fluid. I like mine pretty concentrated. So I'll drink a 16 ounce glass of water with element in it when I first wake up. I'll also consume another one of those maybe 32 ounces with one packet when I exercise, and maybe another one if I happen to sweat a lot during exercise or if I was in the Sauna and sweating lot, if it's a very hot day, et cetera. If you'd like to try Element, go to drink element, that's LMNT dot com slash Huberman to claim a free element sample pack with your purchase. Again, that's drink element LMNT dot com slash Huberman.

Levels (6m 20s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by Levels. Levels is a program that lets you see how different foods and activities impact your blood glucose levels or blood sugar levels as they're sometimes referred to with levels. You can see how the specific foods you eat when you eat and exercise, as well as any other activities impact your blood glucose and how those affect things like your energy level or your quality of sleep or your level of clarity and focus for mental work or your physical output for physical endeavors. I first started using levels about a year ago as a way to understand how different foods and activities impact my blood glucose levels and it's really impacted my entire schedule. In fact, I've shuffled a number of things around such that now I have more stable energy throughout the day. Yes, I eliminated one or two foods, fortunately they weren't my favorite foods. I've also added some new foods to my new nutrition program that have allowed my blood sugar levels to remain much more steady throughout the day and to achieve better sleep at night levels even provides a simple score after any meal you eat so you can see how different foods affect you and develop a personalized nutrition program that's exactly right for you. And that's really what levels is about. It's really about tailoring things to your specific needs. So if you're interested in learning more about levels and trying a CGM yourself, go to Levels link slash Huberman right now. They're offering an additional two free months of membership. Again, that's Levels link slash Huberman.

1 (7m 40s):
And now for my discussion with Tim Ferriss Tim Ferriss, I am nothing short of thrilled to have you here. I've been reading your books, reading your blogs, listening to your podcasts for a very long time. And in preparing for Today, I was thinking, you know, who does Tim remind me of? Cuz I knew you reminded me of somebody, but I didn't know who. And then I realized it, you, me of the neurobiologist, Ramon Kahal, you don't look anything like him. He doesn't look anything like you. He was a brilliant scientist. He won the Nobel Prize in 1906 for essentially describing the structure of the nervous system.

1 (8m 23s):
He was the first along with another guy to define synapses like it's fundamental connection, the nervous system. But the reason that you remind me of Kahal is that it's a well known or not so secret, secret in neuroscience that If, you want to pick a really excellent project to work on. You simply go and look at what Kahal talked about or hypothesized, and then you work on that. You know, he had this almost supernatural ability to look at fixed stain tissue of the nervous system. Much of it is incredibly beautiful by the way. And think about how it worked when it, it was alive and he's considered the greatest neurobiologist of all time without question.

1 (9m 10s):
And it's really this feature of being able to like see around corners or into the future that establishes that link. For me, it's it's absolute truth that If, you look back to what you were doing 10 years ago, 15 years ago, the kinds of things you were doing, the kinds of questions you were asking, I that translates to much of what people like myself and people in the fitness space, tech space, investor space, mindfulness space, Psychedelic space, all these different arenas, what they're doing now. So it's not hyperbole to say that you are the Ramon Kahal of all those different spaces, and Podcasting of course is one of those.

1 (9m 52s):
So I owe you a great debt of gratitude and many others do as well. So my first question for you is, what was your mindset around the time that you wrote Four Hour Body four Hour work week, but in particular four Hour Body? Because the protocols in that book are so very useful. They were at the time it was published, they still are now. And so many of the things like ice baths, the discussion around brown fat thermogenesis resistance training in its, you know, kind of basic form of just providing enough progressive overload to get an adaptation, not excessively long workouts, weight loss, Slow, Carb, Diet and on and on and on.

1 (10m 36s):
What, what were you thinking at that time? Like what If you can think back to then? Like what, what were you foraging for? Were you thinking about when you woke up in the morning thinking, oh, I'm gonna go find all this stuff that at the, the time was really esoteric cuz it has all played out very well. What I'm basically saying is If, you want to know what's going to be happening hot and useful in five years, 10 years and onwards. Just look at what Tim's doing at any moment. So there it is.

2 (11m 3s):
Well, thank you for the very generous comparison and intro. I'm thrilled to be here. So thanks for having me. And the, for Our Body represented an opportunity for me to do a few things. The first was to diversify my identity from outside of the realm of the say business category. So it was a deliberate move since the success of the first book book bought me permission to do something else that publishers would still wanna gamble on. I wanted to see if I could maybe like Michael Lewis take my audience with me to other topics. So that was a lateral move that was very deliberate from a, a career optionality standpoint. And then I was doing, I think what I've done for a very long time and what I enjoy doing, which is looking at the most prevalent beliefs and maybe dogmatic assumptions in a given field could be anything.

2 (11m 56s):
If anyone says always, never should I pay attention and take note of that, they may very well be right. But if anything is said in absolutes, I like to stress test. And in the case of say, physical performance or physical manipulation, tracking 2008 2009 was a very interesting time because the number of different technologies were coming online, meaning being adopted by small groups. You had the very early stages of say accelerometers as wearables. You had a number of different innovations and means of tracking that had never been available before.

2 (12m 38s):
You had, for instance, and this took a bit of ferreting on my side, it wasn't immediately on the roadmap for, for our body, but continuous glucose monitors at the time that was, I wanna say ex exclusively limited to type one diabetics or maybe type two diabetics, but largely type one diabetics. And what captured my interest and I can't recall how I came across it, but it was probably through the very earliest iterations of what later became the quantified self movement. And I remember attending the very first gathering at Kevin Kelly's house in Pacifica, California, this is, this was around 2009, 12 people, 13 people to discuss quantifying health.

2 (13m 20s):
But the, the example of a professional race car driver, I can't remember the, the form factor, whether it was F1 or NASCAR or other who was using this continual glucose monitor for paying attention to glucose levels while driving. and I thought to myself, would that not be useful for healthy normals? Would that not have other applications as if this, if this is being used by a high performer in this type of context, might it have other types of applications? Which then led me to use the very early versions of Dexcom, which were really painful to implant no longer the case. Of course that's changed a lot.

2 (13m 60s):
and I wanted to see how I might be able to find a handful of different categories of things. There's the new, like the genuinely new like C G M at that point was genuinely new. The very old that might have some room for scientific investigation. and I would say, when I say scientific, I don't necessarily mean Randomized controlled Trials at a university. I do think as an end of one If, you think about study design and you can even blind, you could even placebo control and I knew people in the small subculture of quantified self who did this. You can, I think, approach things in a methodical way where you can make a lot of progress in trying to determine causality or or lack thereof looking at very old things, looking at orphaned things.

2 (14m 51s):
So for instance, there are many examples in the world of doping where you have, say balco back in the day where famously berry bonds and others purportedly used things like the cream and the clear. And these were based on anabolics that were sourced from Soviet literature or older literature from the fifties and sixties that might not be on the radar of say, the anti-doping groups that would administer the testing. So all of these different buckets were of interest to me and I begin where I usually do, which is interviewing folks. So I would interview one or two people in a given field and I might ask them any number of questions.

2 (15m 36s):
So one is, what are the nerds doing on the weekends or at night? This is also really good for investing. It's like, all right, what are the really technical nerds doing at night or on the weekends after they've put in a really long workday or work week? Let's take a really close look at that. Another one is, and I'll, I'll create a flow for this, but what are rich people doing now that everyone or 10 or hundreds of millions of people might be doing 10 years from now? And an example of that would be, let's just say full-time assistant, virtual assistant ai, right? So we've seen the needs and wants being addressed by different technology, but it's an iteration of the same thing on some level in the case of say using chat G P T tied into this API for various functions and then where are people cobbling together awkward solutions.

2 (16m 31s):
So where are people piecing together awkward solutions and is there room for some type of innovation there? These are a few of the questions that I would not only ask myself but ask experts in different areas. So if I end up spending time say this was a few years prior to writing the four Hour Body, I spent time at NASA Ames and was interacting with a number of scientists, some people who were working on all sorts of biological tests and looking at genomics and had a very frank discussion about where they thought if they had to push, right? So I'll ask questions like push a little bit into the realm of science fiction and speculation because I'm sure you can't support any type of projection like that with the literature, with scientific literature.

2 (17m 17s):
But what do you think some of the risks are of say publishing your genome? Cause at the time, a number of high profile folks had just made their full genomes available and they're like, well, I think in the near future it'd be possible to reconstruct someone's face based on their genetic data. And they're like high degree of confidence, like zero to a hundred percent how confident. They're like, yeah, 80, 90%. I'm like, okay, I should pay attention to that because if you're making your data available, let's just say, and it's anonymized per se, you still might be identifiable. So it's like, okay, that raises some interesting questions. Like, okay, well then how might you get around that? How might you put in safeguards so that you are the one and only keeper of your data, so to speak, brought up all sorts of targeted weaponry by sort of bio weapons possibilities that I was interested in.

2 (18m 6s):
And then I would ask that person who's clearly like willing to step outside of the box of whatever he's working on day to day, who are two of your close friends or two thinkers you really pay a lot of attention to, are kind of at the bleeding edge of something and unorthodox. And then I would just continue to have these conversations over and over again. And the, the, the, the, the stream of development that I paid a lot of attention to is something along the lines of the following. So the, the, the very beginnings are usually in some type of extreme case and I think the extremes, and this goes for product design as well, but the extremes inform the mean but not vice versa. So you can actually learn a lot by studying the edge cases.

2 (18m 49s):
So racehorses for instance, you'll often see things start with say racehorses or people with wasting diseases for instance, or any type of chronic or terminal illness who are willing to try some more experimental interventions. Then let's just take one step further. Bodybuilding, see a lot of interesting behavior in bodybuilding and high level athletes, then billionaires, then rich people, then the rest of us, right? So my assumption is and was for the four Hour Body that along the lines of William Gibson's quote, you know, the future is already here, it's just not evenly distributed. So I'm never predicting the future, I'm just finding the seeds that are germinating that I think are gonna bloom and end up spreading really, really widely.

2 (19m 35s):
So that's, that's, that's generally where I start. and I assume the practitioners are gonna be ahead of the papers. So studying, say the coaches whose jobs are on the line, who are getting paid based on athlete performance and assuming that a lot of that will eventually, if it holds up, make its way into say the peer reviewed exercise science papers, but it's gonna have a lag time of three to five years

1 (19m 59s):
At least.

2 (19m 60s):
At least, yeah, at least. Yeah. Takes a

1 (20m 1s):
Long time. Yeah. Science is often very slow to catch up. Yeah. You mentioned many things I have questions about. You mentioned paying attention to the new, the very old or the orphaned. So interesting. and I just thought I'd tell you that when you sit down with a graduate student or a postdoc and they're trying to come up with a project, rarely do you say, you know, like, what do you wanna work on? And they fire back like a really interesting question. Sometimes they do, but that's the rare person. More often than not, you'll send them to the literature and they'll come back with like, okay, there's this new technique that we can use to answer a set of questions better than ever before.

1 (20m 44s):
Or there's a very old theory I want to revisit, or there's this theory that no one pays attention to. in fact, we had one guest on here, ODed avi, who is studying it essentially inheritance of traits, transgenerational, inheritance of traits. It's a little bit, although different from Lamarckian evolution, but it's a lot like that in some ways. And you know, these orphan theories that everyone assumed were wrong and that there is a basis for them. So I think there's real genius in that analysis. It also struck me as you were listing off some of your process circa the, the writing of the four Hour Body that I and many other people are, are probably curious about what the operations around all that looked like.

1 (21m 27s):
So are you or were you at the time like waking up in the morning going, okay, I'm gonna take a walk and think about the new, the old and the orphaned, or who I'm gonna take a walk or sit in a chair and think about like, what are the nerds doing right now? What are rich people doing right now? Cobbling together awkward solutions. Was, was that exploration a Structured practice for you or is this just something that was the consequence of being Tim Ferriss waking up in the morning and just like leaning into that because I I've, I've experienced both, right? Yeah. You know, but I think a lot of us are curious. I mean that there's a lot of mystique around you, whether you like my best to dispel it, whether, whether you like it or not.

1 (22m 10s):
It, it, it's there. And, and we're not trying to, to pry, but

2 (22m 15s):
Pry away is the,

1 (22m 16s):
Is the establishment of structure for you something that's the consequence of structure in the first place. It's like, okay, now's time to think or do you just allow things to geyser up to the surface?

2 (22m 29s):
I do both. and I would say that in the case of the four Hour Body, it's, it's a bit of an anomaly compared to my later books because I had recorded effectively every workout I'd done since age 16 as a competitive athlete. I just, I had a lot of records and I kept copious notes on Supplement use and everything imaginable. So I have what you might call hypergraphia, I just capture it almost everything in writing. And that was very useful because at various points in time, let's just say I looked at a photograph of myself from making this up, but 2004 and I think I would like to look and feel like that again. Okay, let me revisit my workout logs. Let me just replicate the proceeding three to six months of workouts and look at my Intake and my diet at the time.

2 (23m 17s):
And lo and behold, more or less I could replicate the same type of look and feel and performance. So I had a lot already logged that I thought was worth Examining and putting under scrutiny, trying to replicate with other people. I do think replication is really important. And then when it came time to commit to writing the book, I thought about what types of mini books would be of great interest to me personally. And that book, like many of my other books, was written in such a fashion that it could be a choose your own adventure book did not need to be read. in fact, in many ways it shouldn't be read linearly from page one to the end. You get to pick and choose which chapters are of interest based on breath hold, vertical jump, endurance, hypertrophy, Cold Exposure for fat loss, whatever it might be.

2 (24m 8s):
And then I began talking to people and at the, at the very outer bounds of self experimentation, at least in the Bay Area, it's a pretty small community. So you're one or two lily pads from just about everyone. And. It's not accidental that I put myself in that environment in San Francisco specifically and more generally in the Bay Area, Silicon Valley, because there's just a high surface area for luck to stick to because you have so many serendipitous encounters, you have so many people focusing on different disciplines. That I think was the fertilizer and the fertile ground for everything else was actually the choosing, the where of writing, physically being located in San Francisco.

2 (24m 56s):
And then when I'm structuring things, maybe I'll get into some of the nitty gritty, but I was using at the time, and I still like to use a program called Scrivener, which is actually designed predominantly for screenwriting. It's used for many things now, novels and so on. It's expanded, its reach quite a bit, but it allows you to gather research and all of your documents and drafts so that you can move them around in very novel ways so that you can view, say a split pane of your research and what you're working on simultaneously without having to toggle between a lot of different windows. And I was very promiscuous in my gathering of data. So I would gather from say the web, using a web clipper from Evernote, which I was involved with as a company.

2 (25m 42s):
And basically without bias capture as much as possible, put three asterisks next to anything that I thought I really might want to revisit after I had read something a second time, which I would always do, then I could control f to find just three asterisks because they don't occur much in normal writing. Just like people, authors, writers. Will you t use tk meaning find such and such a date? Data needs to be inserted later, but I don't wanna interrupt the flow of writing. Lemme put in TK because it doesn't really appear in natural English much. In terms of Structured Thinking, the way I approached it was during that period of time in my life, it was interviews, tracking people down, conversations, emails, reading.

2 (26m 28s):
So ingestion, let's just say for the workday, then a break for training and, and actually using myself as the human Guinea pig for various things that had surfaced that might be on the docket.

1 (26m 42s):
Where were you training at that time? I, San Francisco is not famous for amazing gyms.

2 (26m 47s):
It's not famous for amazing gyms. At the time I was training mostly at a climbing gym called Mission Cliffs. They didn't have much, but they had barbells. Yeah, I know that. Yep. And they had kettlebells. Yep. I also had in the, in the walkway leading from the front door of the apartment I was renting, it was more of a house, the front door all the way to the first set of stairs. There were 30 kettle kettlebells, so various types. and I was training for certification. Cause I wanted to put myself on some type of deadline with accountability for that type of training to get a better understanding of it. So I'd trained for a few hours. I also had developed a friendship with Kelly Starrt. So San Francisco CrossFit, who I have tremendous amount of respect for.

1 (27m 26s):
Yeah, likewise on multiple levels. He's terrific. And his new book

2 (27m 30s):
Yeah. Built to

1 (27m 31s):
Move his great book. He's so good.

2 (27m 33s):
Yeah, he, he really not only talks the talk but walks the walk and exemplifies many of the capabilities that he teaches, which I take seriously. I like practitioners, not just the people with pretty theories, although the theories are important, I prefer to see someone who can actually put them into practice. So Kelly served that function, certainly. and I, we're still very close friends. And then after that, all right, shake off the cobwebs, get the body moving, get the brain moving, also eat. And then I would actually focus on synthesis. So I would write generally from, let's call it 9:00 PM or 10:00 PM through to four or 5:00 AM and I would ride the wave if I happened to be in the zone.

2 (28m 21s):
If I weren't in the zone, I wouldn't force it and I would try to get more sleep. But I have always performed best with my writing in those witching hours of let's call it 10:00 PM to 4:00 AM. And my experience is that the writers I've interviewed, the the writer friends, I've become close with If. you look at when they made themselves, not necessarily what they do now, right? But what they did that eventually got them to escape velocity, they're almost always doing most of their writing very late at night or very early in the morning when the rest of the world or their social group is inactive.

1 (29m 2s):
Wow. Yeah. and I say wow, because of course all of this was prior to the publication of Matt Walker's. Yeah. Seminal book, right? Why We Sleep, which I really see as the book that shifted a lot of people, fortunately from the I'll sleep when I'm dead mindset to I'll, you know, to really paying attention to it. And you know, I don't think Matt gets enough credit. I mean there, there's been a revision of a few points within that book, but the majority of it is just spot on and hyper

2 (29m 30s):
Legitimate.

1 (29m 31s):
So Good. And, and yet what you're describing is a schedule that, you know, starting to write at 9:00 PM and finishing up around 4:00 AM But you talked about research earlier that day and training and eating. So were, were there naps in there?

2 (29m 43s):
I would sleep from say four to maybe 11 or 12. So I would be getting up later and I've had conversations with Matt about this and there are night Night Owls and Morning Larks. Yeah. And there are certainly differences in the code, meaning the genetics. But that worked very, very well for me for a very long time. It is, however, a very challenging social schedule. So once you have a significant other, and every girlfriend I've ever had is a morning person, If, you wanna spend time together, that schedule just does not work. So I made compromises later for the social side of things, but if If, you put a gun to my head and said, you need to write the best book humanly possible, that is your only priority outside of some exercise and fuel, I would follow the same schedule.

1 (30m 35s):
I know several very successful podcasters, Lex Friedman in particular, who I think he's trying to follow a more normal schedule now, but he's pseudo nocturnal, at least by my ex, my read. Yeah. And there are a couple other online content creators, Derek, from more plates, more dates, who's hyper productive in his domain and is mostly nocturnal. Yeah. And then as you're describing your writing routine and your overall routine, I was thinking that, you know, the, the great skateboarder, everyone knows Tony Hawk, who is obviously a great skateboarder, no doubt about that. But Rodney Mullen who had invented the Ian Street, the kick flip, the Ali, like Rodney is basically nocturnal and has been for a long time.

1 (31m 17s):
And would, you know, skateboard up and down the boardwalk in Santa Monica in the middle of the night because lack of distraction. Yeah. Is really was. And he's been doing that since his teens. I don't know what he's doing these days, but I think a lot of creators just need space. And, and I always wonder if that's because when they, at least the ones that are not socially dysfunctional like yourself, who when they are around people, there's this almost hopefully a desire to interact. So you almost have to remove the stimulus completely. Yeah.

2 (31m 46s):
Yeah. It, it, it removes the plausible deniability, which might not be the perfect use of that phrase, but in the sense that you, it's harder to fool yourself into thinking you're doing something important when you're checking your messages or Social Media at two in the morning. Who are we kidding folks? You should be writing in this case. Right? Right. And writers will do anything to avoid writing. I remember Ayn Rand wrote a book about writing, which is actually fantastic. I can't remember the exact title. It might just be on non-fiction writing, something like that. And she talked about polishing the sneakers or the shoes before writing. Like, I really just need to do this one thing, which is to just clean up that shoe because somebody should really clean it up, And it at some point I should clean it up and therefore, why don't I just do, there's no time like the present.

2 (32m 28s):
I'll just do that. And it's all to avoid writing, which is the harder thing. And in my conversations with Matt, also, I should say that as someone who has self-described as a person who struggles with onset insomnia, Matt made the point and sometimes we need to relearn things. Maybe you should just go to bed later. Sure. And that might address some of this onset insomnia and I don't know the causes for that, but I do get a second wind very late. Could be related to some cortisol release abnormality or just different scripting in my system. Who knows?

AG1 (33m 7s):
I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our sponsors, Athletic Greens Athletic Greens now called AG One is a vitamin mineral probiotic drink that covers all of your foundational nutritional needs. I've been taking Athletic Greens since 2012, so I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. The reason I started taking Athletic Greens, and the reason I still take Athletic Greens once or usually twice a day, is that it gets me the probiotics that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by gut microbiota that communicate with the brain, the immune system, and basically all the biological systems of our body to strongly impact our immediate and long-term health. And those probiotics and Athletic Greens are optimal and vital for microbiotic health. In addition, Athletic Greens contains a number of adaptogens, vitamins and minerals that make sure that all of my foundational nutritional needs are met And. it tastes great. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to Athletic Greens dot com slash Huberman and they'll give you five free travel packs that make it really easy to mix up Athletic Greens while you're on the road and the car on the plane, et cetera. And they'll give you a year supply of vitamin D three k2. Again, that's Athletic Greens dot com slash Huberman to get the five free travel packs and the year supply of vitamin D three k2.

2 (34m 21s):
I'll mention one other, one other maybe heuristic that I use for trying to peak around corners, which is if I find an example of an outlier, trying to find two or three, right? Because one is an exception, two is interesting, three is worth Investigating. That's sort of how I think about it. and I recognize the plural of anecdote does not equal data. However, a, a lot of interesting discoveries begin as case studies or case histories. And so there are some things we could talk about that, that I've paid attention to over the last few years that are not in the, for Hour Body that I think are quite interesting and raise very, very exciting questions.

2 (35m 5s):
But I'd

1 (35m 5s):
Love to hear about those. Yeah. And, and along the lines of what I call anec data. Yeah. I mean, most of what we know about human memory stems from one patient. Hm. Who had his hippo campi removed for epilepsy, And of course there've been on millions, probably close to millions of studies in animals and humans focusing on the hippo campi. But most of what we know about human memory is from one guy. Yeah, yeah,

2 (35m 29s):
Yeah, exactly. So there's, there's, there's a lot to be examined. Not all of it will get funding for RCTs. Let's be realistic. This is especially true if you're hoping for any type of directive data. And notice I'm not saying conclusive, but if If, you are a human who's gonna be making decisions about diet, health, exercise, If, you want any consensus, you're doomed. You'll be you. You're not gonna get any answers before you die.

1 (35m 54s):
Can you say that twice so that the internet can hear it extra loud and clear? For, those of you that are arguing about nutrition on Twitter, like it, it might actually be life wasted. Yeah. I mean I'm not being judgmental. I mean I think that there's validity in lots of those pockets. There's stuff that's wrong in lots of those pockets. Yeah. There're there diets that work extremely well. Like, you know, four hour diet or it's slow Carb, I was called a four hour diet, but the Slow Carb Diet, yeah. Yeah. It works extremely well. Anytime I followed it, you know, I get much leaner and stronger and all that stuff that it's purported to do it, it works. But yeah, maybe you could just explain what you mean by that.

1 (36m 34s):
Because I think there are some argument slash friction spaces Yeah. That are, that are truly an energy sink.

2 (36m 41s):
Yeah. I would just say focus on what works for you and your family or your team and If. You're arguing on the internet. Recognize that you're just doing it because you like arguing on the internet. You're not gonna convince anyone of anything and you're just gonna make yourself more frustrated. If, you plan on changing any opinions. So for me it's live and let live. And the more people who engage in that type of behavior, the more competitive advantage you have. If you don't. So for me, I'm like, okay, If, you wanna spend this vital non-renewable resource of yours called Time On that if I ever compete against you, I'm gonna win.

2 (37m 24s):
So great, I'll just, I'll, I'll also not even try to convince you to stop doing that unless you see the logic in it, which I have, which is why I also don't have, at least for two years, have mostly had no social apps installed on my phone. And we could talk about that because I think recognizing that these things have been engineered to overcome any type of self-discipline with billions of dollars at stake should lead you to believe that you're bringing a a knife to a gunfight. So I just don't have the apps on my phone to begin with and I find it much more gratifying to see disproportionate change from small inputs.

2 (38m 5s):
So that's what I'm looking for. And I'm also looking for changes that are easy to make that can have high Adherence, that have very limited downside, which is very different from proving something. for instance, in the, for Hour, Body took a look at the potential effect of cell phones or the proximity of cell phones to say gal function and reproductive health. And the literature that was available at the time was very limited. Had some animal studies, mice, rats, et cetera. I recognize humans are not just large mice, so they don't always translate.

2 (38m 46s):
But I looked at it and I said, okay, looking at this simplistically, is it plausible that there could be similar effects on humans? Seems to be the case also based on conversations with people who are specialists but would never go on record. Therefore, if your phone is in your pocket, just have it on airplane mode. I mean it, it does not have a high cost and, and then pending any revision we can see, but while the jury's still out, I'm gonna risk mitigate by taking this step.

1 (39m 19s):
Yeah. Well and I just wanna say thank you there too. I read that recommendation. I followed the recommendation of not keeping the phone on in my front pocket or back pocket. Again, that's anecdotal. Yeah. My sperm analysis isn't relevant to this conversation but worked out. But you know, you could say, well that's not necessarily because you had the phone off. But I did a very long detailed episode on male and female fertility. There is now a, what I view as a really quality meta-analysis and it's pretty clear that there are effects of the smartphone on proximity of the smartphone when it's turned on that are not good for sperm, isn't necessarily gonna render somebody's sterile, but on sperm that can be separated out from the heat effects.

1 (40m 8s):
And so essentially this is another instance in which you were, you were right and I think more data will come out and am I a EMF conspiracy theorist? No. Do I wear tin foil underwear? No. But I think it's interesting. Yeah, I think it's important. And thanks to you cud my attention to it. in fact, I teach about that in a course on, on Neural circuits and biology and health and disease.

2 (40m 36s):
Amazing. Yeah. and I don't expect to get everything right at all. That would be crazy. I'd like to think I'm not totally crazy. And it's very important, If, you are going to do self experimentation or experimentation in small groups, which the quantified self community did quite well and I think still does quite well. You should really make every effort to not fool yourself, which is hard. It's, it's challenging at times. But read books like bad science, read books like How to Lie with Statistics, ensure that you are able to read studies well. You don't have to be the best in the world, but that you can on some level identify the strengths and weaknesses of studies.

2 (41m 22s):
This doesn't take a long time. Certainly our friend Peter Artia, Dr. Peter Artia has studying the studies, which is a multiple part blog series dedicated to this. There are other ways to approach it. I took one of his podcasts, republished it on The Tim Ferriss Show because it talked about how to examine studies, what powering refers to things like this. In the span of one or two weeks you could really become literate with the building blocks of Scientific Literacy with respect to reading studies. And that gives you such an enormous life advantage. It's hard to overstate.

1 (41m 58s):
Yeah, I agree. and I also think that there are a lot of things that just simply will not ever be explored in a Randomized control trial. One of the things that Peter and I have talked about before is he texts me, you know, what are your thoughts on BPC 1 57? This is a gastric peptide that's now been synthesized so people will inject it into a tissue that they're trying to heal or improve. Lots and lots of a data on BPC 1 57, making injuries heal faster, et cetera. Again, a data, I've used it, I took an injection of it yesterday. in fact, Peter basically is not a believer because there's a lack of published data on this, which is perfectly fine.

1 (42m 39s):
Or I should say he's skeptical. And so there's always that possibility of a placebo effect. Yeah. But I don't think there will ever be a really nice controlled trial on BPC 1 57 because the financial incentives aren't there. Yeah. And no smart graduate student is going to go do a thesis on this that, so that's the reality. I mean it maybe one will do it now that we're having this conversation, but it just doesn't that that payout isn't there. Yeah.

2 (43m 4s):
And that last one you mentioned is one that people miss a lot people doing these studies are people with careers who are planning their careers. And so they choose what they're going to invest time in very carefully. So that's another limiter on what will end up in an R C T or not. Right. So I think that's good for people to hear. And as you get more involved with science, and in my case through a foundation, you know, SAI Saisei Foundation funding a lot of early stage science, you realize how expensive it is and how long it takes. It is a long-term investment. And If, you are looking to make behavioral changes or modify aspects of yourself.

2 (43m 46s):
Cognitive, physical, psycho-emotional or otherwise identifying interventions. Right. Options that seem to have some plausible upside, like there is a, a mechanism that might make sense in humans. If you feel fairly certain there's very limited downside, which should include talking to people who are presenting their results as anecdotal. Then maybe you consider using X If, you can cap your downside. and I recall, for instance, looking at trans resveratrol specifically not for longevity, but in potentially increasing endurance for for our body.

2 (44m 27s):
and I ended up testing it. And there's a funny story associated with that didn't quite work out as planned and I don't use it any longer. But what I experienced prior to actually finding this on forums was joint pain, elbow pain, the one most consistent side effect was what felt like tendinosis in the elbows. And then I went online and I'd already done this, but I hadn't come across, I think it was the 500 group people had been using 500 milligrams of trans resveratrol daily for long periods of time. And one of the most common reported side effects is joint pain. and I was like, okay, I'm not willing to make that trade off.

2 (45m 7s):
Yeah. And

1 (45m 9s):
Makes sense to me.

2 (45m 10s):
Yeah.

1 (45m 11s):
I think it would be fun if ever you were willing that we could do a hybrid podcast on Supplement Fails.

2 (45m 21s):
I have some spectacular failures

1 (45m 23s):
As do I. Yeah. and I'm thinking, I'm thinking about a few of them. I mean, some that were really like took me off course. Like there's one Supplement called Bine Natalensis. This isano another one of these shrubs

2 (45m 35s):
Sounds like an infection.

1 (45m 37s):
I mean this thing will really spike your testosterone and free testosterone. I'm talking back acne, like huge strange gains aggression. It's really wild. And then after about seven to 10 days it all crashes and you go below baseline. Oh, sounds terrible. Oh yeah. Even testicular pain. So it was unclear. So you, if you're a smart person, you halt use. Right? Yeah. Yeah. So I can understand why people are skeptical of certain things. And then of course there are supplements that I'm a big fan of and that you're a big fan of. We talked about those things elsewhere. But it might be fun to do a Supplement Fails podcast if ever you're willing, that would be,

2 (46m 10s):
Oh, I could do just experimental Fails. Oh yeah, yeah. End of one experimental Fails. Yeah. Which include things that people might not think about. for instance, for our body had quite a bit of real estate dedicated to looking at things like p r P. So completely rich plasma. I think there's a role for it. It's not useful for everything but for certain types of injury or repair, I think it's very interesting. But every time you get injected, this is where you have to be careful. Cause there are very few free lunches out there. There's, there's usually some type of feedback loop and your system is very smart at auto regulating things. This is, this is outside of that a consideration that I hadn't made, which is every time you have an injection, there's a chance of an infection.

2 (46m 57s):
Particularly if the site, in my case was the elbow and the injection was made for the p r p not quite where it should have been, slightly to the rear of the elbow where the, the skin is very thick. And so it pushed staph bacteria Oh. From a mid layer of the skin into the joint capsule. Not good. And that really could have ended very poorly. I ended up having to go to the ER and get it, get it all removed and so on. But that could have ended up in a, in a much, much more severe situation. So you do have to be careful with this stuff. I've become a little more conservative with some what I do, including injections.

2 (47m 40s):
I'm like, all right. Like let me think twice about the injections. If I'm gonna swallow something, let me make sure I'm really looking at the implications for the liver.

1 (47m 50s):
Yeah, smart. Very smart. I'm curious about some of the things that you talked about in the four Hour Body and that you've mentioned today. Things like accelerometers, continuous glucose monitors, deliberate Cold, Exposure. How many of those things are you still doing on a regular basis and how many do you, you know, use a couple times a week or a couple times a month or go through phases of using and not using

2 (48m 15s):
Cold? Exposure I use as consistently as is practical. So if I'm traveling, it's a little harder. But we're in LA right now. One of the first things I did was find a few options for contrast therapy. One of the first things I did, and by contrast I do not mean infrared sauna and cold plunge. I'd much rather have hot and cold water just in terms of sort of speed of heating the

1 (48m 39s):
Japanese approach.

2 (48m 40s):
Right, right. For just speed of vasodilation, particularly for injury recovery, I think it's incredibly helpful for mood regulation. Certainly that's the case. And cold water for mood regulation or the treatment of say depression or as a preemptive intervention to avoid or mitigate depression is old. It used to be prescribed for melancholy and people like the van Goghs of the world would be prescribed cold baths. So that was something I was like, well let's take a look at some of the old history, read about that, and then look into PubMed and so on to see what might be supported. So the cold I'm still using, I become increasingly interested.

2 (49m 23s):
This was not in the four Hour Body, but whole body Hyperthermia often excluding the head for depression, which I, I know there's some, some research Yeah.

1 (49m 34s):
Outta U C S F. Yeah, exactly. Right now. Yeah. Really interesting studies too early to report. I'm not involved in these, but I think these are really important Yeah. Studies because for all the people saying, oh, well, you know, it is ice bath stuff, you know, metabolism this, metabolism that. But one thing that's very clear is long lasting, very significant increase in the catecholamines, Dopamine, epinephrine, norepinephrine. Not a replacement perhaps for antidepressant medication, but as you said to, to move the needle toward antidepressant states. Yeah. That's the cocktail and heat as well.

2 (50m 7s):
Yeah. Yeah. And the hypothermia, especially the way it's formatted right now with some of the research is, is very early stages. There's gonna be less Adherence. It's not as readily available, say cold shower or cold bath. So I do think about the practical indications of that, but right now it's, it's very interesting. Slow Carb Diet still use it all the time. It is not my default 24 7 as it used to be. So maybe I'm just getting older and more self-indulgent. But if I find myself going off the rails a bit and I'm like, okay, I'm getting closer to muffin top here, let's stage an intervention, then I will go immediately back to Slow Carb Diet. And within, within a matter of weeks. I, it's, it's pretty easily corrected. And

1 (50m 46s):
Just a cue for people. I know that, you know, Slow, Carb Diet achieved great prominence. in fact, it wasn't it featured on or mentioned in an episode of Orange is the New Black. I

2 (50m 57s):
I think it might have been. Yeah. It's made, it's made appearances on a handful of shows. Great.

1 (51m 1s):
I realized that I've been referring to the Slow Carb Diet several times throughout this discussion. So For, those that aren't familiar with the Slow, Carb Diet, I know they can go look up what that is, but so that we can keep them here Sure. For the rest of this discussion and not have to send them out and back just yet. Could you give us just a brief top contour of what the Slow Carb Diet is? Sure,

2 (51m 21s):
Yeah. This is Slow Carb. Diet is intended to be a simple, easy to adhere to diet for people who have perhaps failed other diets that allows you to recompose your body. So improve muscle mass, decrease body fat percentage. And the rules are really simple and that's part of what makes it work. It's not ideal for every sport and every circumstance, but broadly speaking, it works for a lot of people who've had trouble with dieting in the past. So rule number one, don't drink calories. That's it. Very simple. So black coffee, unsweetened tea, great juice out, anything with calories out, you could add a little bit of heavy cream to your coffee, let's say.

2 (52m 7s):
But that's, that's also bending the rules in a way that I don't like. So in the beginning it's like follow the rules so you can break them later. So in the beginning, let's just say you can't drink calories. Number two, don't eat anything white. Sounds pretty basic, right? Just don't eat anything that is the color of white or that could be white, basically. That means you're gonna be avoiding starches and things that are, are similar to starches,

1 (52m 29s):
That includes things like oatmeal

2 (52m 31s):
That are, that includes things like oatmeal. Yeah. So roughly speaking, just avoiding things that are white or that could be white will get you pretty far. And yes, there are exceptions like cauliflower, fine, you can have cauliflower, but again, don't get fancy, right? It's, it's very easy to outsmart yourself when it comes to behavioral change. Keep it simple. So for at least two weeks, forget about the exceptions, right? Don't drink calories, don't eat anything white, and then eat 30 grams of Protein within 30 minutes of waking up. Okay, we got that. And then there are few buckets you can choose from, right? So you have vegetables, beans, and lentils, and then some type of Protein.

2 (53m 16s):
So you're going to come up with meals that you can follow without deviating for a period of one or two weeks, just come up with the same meals. And that's gonna sound boring. Yes. But guess what? You do it already. You just might not realize it. And the, the lentils and the beans specifically as a pre-req, we can get into some of the reasons, but add a lot of fiber and also inhibit appetite, right? So that's actually a very important component of these meals. And there may be a handful of other rules, but those are the basics. And then the redemption is take one day off per week and just go fucking crazy.

2 (53m 56s):
That's cheat day. There are some epic cheat days out there, some I've captured for myself. And anything goes, when I say anything, I do mean anything. So If, you wanna consume multiple pizzas, pints of ice cream, whatever, indulge. I left one out, no fruit during the week. So avoid fruit, avoid fructose cell, you agave nectar, anything that is sort of hidden sugar, avoid all that. It's a no added sweeteners obviously, but avoid, avoid fruit and fructose. and again, it's not gonna kill you. Guess what? If you're from European ancestry, your ancestor did not have like blueberries in the middle of winter, generally speaking, right?

2 (54m 39s):
So you'll, you'll be fine for a few weeks and then there's that cheat day and cheat day. Anything goes, the amount of damage you can do on cheat day is pretty limited and there are ways you can mitigate that. There's a whole chapter called damage control in the four Hour Body. But focusing just on that diet and having one day off where you know you can do anything means when you're controlling yourself For, those six days of the week, you're not giving up your favorite foods forever. You can even keep a list of all things you wanna eat on cheat day. And then you have free license to eat on cheat day. And that provides you with a release valve so that you can build in the cheating as opposed to having it occur as a failure point.

2 (55m 22s):
And there are a handful of other things there. If, you have domino foods in the house. for instance, If, you eat a lot of almonds or mixed nuts and you're just gonna sit there compulsively eating them while you're sitting at your laptop. Don't have what I call domino foods in the house, which are going to really create some portion control issues. But broadly speaking, don't drink calories, donate things that are white. Take from three categories and build your meals out. And those are the meals that you follow. Do not eat fruit or fructose and then cheat one day a week. And Saturday's a nice day for cheat day for most folks. And just to answer some questions that people are gonna have. No, that doesn't mean 24 hours that you can spread out over two days, that will actually set you back.

2 (56m 5s):
But the amount of fat that you can store in a handful of sittings over 24 hours, which legitimately is more like 12 to 18 hours, pretty limited. So that's slow grabb diet. Great, thank you for that. I also want to ask,

1 (56m 24s):
Is it okay to take the day after cheat day and fast, or do one meal that day? When I followed the Slow, Carb Diet, I benefited from it tremendously. Lost fat, gained muscle, tons of energy, sleeping great, required less caffeine, all sorts of wonderful things, stable blood sugar. I felt so, so good. Really enjoyed the cheat days. I really, really enjoyed the cheat days so much, so much fun. At some point, there's some gastric distress that comes from, you know, not regulating Intake, which led me to not want to eat the next day. So I tended to do the cheat days on Sunday in my case, and then I would fast most of Monday, just water, black coffee, tea, and then I might have a small meal in the evening.

1 (57m 9s):
And then by Tuesday I was back on the Slow. Carb Diet. Does that seem like a, an sort of a detrimental deviation from the, from the plan?

2 (57m 19s):
I think that if that is what works for you, then that is what works for you. So this is this, this, this Slow Carb Diet template for me is a starting point. And generally I'll say, and I think this is from Picasso, right? It's like, learn the rules as an amateur so you can break them as a professional. But it's like, I recommend most people kind of stick with the format for a handful of weeks and measure the results right there. So there are guidelines for how to measure the, the scale is a bit of a blunt instrument. So there are other ways, but if you're extremely overweight, you can just use the scale and Fasting I think is fine. Or just ratcheting back your chloric consumption significantly.

2 (58m 1s):
And what happens over time for most people also is for the first say four weeks on cheat day, you're gonna go completely insane. And I, remember I was doing something much stricter called the cyclical ketogenic diet, which is a whole separate thing. It's much more limiting in terms of what you can eat. But I was training for ultimately the nationals in Chinese kickboxing. This was happening in 99. So I was training super hard. I was following a cyclical ketogenic diet, which meant I could eat very few things, but I did have this one cheat day. and I would do a glycogen depletion workout beforehand, which is one of the things you can do to limit the damage on cheat day, do a glycogen depletion workout beforehand.

2 (58m 43s):
And then I would just go crazy. I mean, I would drive to like Kris Krispy Kreme by 12 donuts, And. it would be gone by the time I got home. And, it wasn't an hour away, it was like a 10 minute drive. Donuts would be gone, right? I would go to Safeway and I would buy a bag of those fun sized Snickers and that would be just a tiny portion of of my

1 (59m 3s):
Calories. Sweet stuff for you. Huh?

2 (59m 4s):
It a lot of sweet stuff. I also did the savory stuff. I mean, I had my favorites. Nothing was safe pizza, nothing was, was safe, nothing was safe. My, my paw got into everything. And then over time, because the next day you're gonna feel like you got hit by a, a diabetic dump truck, you start ratcheting back and you're like, okay, maybe I don't need to do that. Maybe cheat day will just be two meals. Or maybe cheat day will just be like the pastries in the morning with the coffee. And you start to regulate a bit. Generally you don't have to, but over time you generally will and I think after you've followed it to the T, just follow the commandments for say four to eight weeks, then you can certainly deviate.

2 (59m 47s):
And I'm not saying if you're not hungry, don't eat. However, in many cases people have, they have acclimated to not eating in the morning and then they end up overeating later in the day. If, you have that habit, right? If, you're consuming 50% of your calories or more at dinner and you want to lose body fat. I would say get some cottage cheese or something that will give you 30 grams easily in the morning. Worst case scenario, use a Protein of some type. Just don't make it hyper caloric.

1 (1h 0m 21s):
You mean powdered Protein like

2 (1h 0m 23s):
Could be powdered, whe powdered, whe Protein whole food is gonna do a lot more

1 (1h 0m 28s):
And no calorie counting. Correct?

2 (1h 0m 30s):
No calorie counting. It tends to be self-limiting when you're eating this much fiber and this much Protein. It tends to be very self-limiting. What you'll want to consume and what you can consume. Yeah.

1 (1h 0m 42s):
Once again, I had great experiences with Slow, Carb Diet and I'm gonna go back on.

2 (1h 0m 46s):
Yeah. And nobody, and nobody needs to buy anything to figure it out. If, you just search on Tim blog, Slow Carb Diet there, you'll get everything that you need to get started. No purchase necessary.

1 (1h 0m 59s):
Well it works very, very well. I'll say that. And it's very straightforward to follow And. it does include the, the notorious cheat day. Infamous cheat day. Yep. And it can be done on a, on a very reasonable budget. And so if people want to learn more about that, they should go to Tim's blog on four hour four Hour Body and Slow Carb Diet. We'll provide a link. Yeah, but it's, you know, I, I think it's worth highlighting again, just how effective that is. You know, as you pointed out, thousands and thousands of people using it to great success, some of whom were quite obese and yeah. Yeah. Any updates on those folks? Are they still keeping the weight off? I, I

2 (1h 1m 38s):
Would like to do a follow up. It's, I think with diets in general, there's a lot of reversion to the mean, you know, regression to the mean. So I would expect that, that some have kept it off and some have not. That would be true of I think every possible diet, especially for people who are overcoming behavioral inertia of having gained hundreds of pounds. But I'd like to do some follow up. What was fun about the post I put together called had to lose a hundred pounds on the Slow Carb Diet. We had, we profiled say four or five people, but there were dozens and dozens and dozens and dozens. And this was a very long time ago. So I would say that a long term follow up would be super interesting.

2 (1h 2m 21s):
And we did at one point track several thousand people through a platform at the time, and I think it was coach.me as they followed the soda Carb diet for the first sort of four to 12 weeks. And that was fascinating. Cause I want the data and I'm happy to be proven incorrect with any of my assumptions. I mean, I, I don't view that as a failure. I mean, I view that as a, as a huge net gain and it has a very high Adherence rate. So I, I pay attention to not just is something effective, does it get you the outcome you want? Not only is it efficient from a time and resource perspective, but how high is the Adherence rate? Right? So If, you take a random sampling of a thousand people from the US across socioeconomic classes, et cetera.

2 (1h 3m 6s):
How many people practically speaking will be able to, or willing to follow this for say an eight week period of time or four week period of time. and I try to optimize for the widest Adherence because I know the, the Slow, Carb Diet people come on and they're like, but what about intermittent Fasting? What about this and what about endurance athletes? I'm like, this is not for everybody in all cases. It just happens to be a good default diet with a high Adherence rate. And like you said, it's very inexpensive. It can be followed very, very inexpensively.

1 (1h 3m 35s):
Could I, sorry to interrupt you. One thing that I really like about it is that many variants on caloric restriction, which is cuz laws of thermodynamics definitely apply folks for sure. We're not, we're not trying to say they don't. But one of the issues with a lot of things, including intermittent Fasting, which I sort of do some variant of, cuz I'm not really hungry to eat until about 11. I like to train in the morning if I can, et cetera, is that they can sometimes prevent best performance in terms of especially resistance training, high intensity resistance training. So very low Carb diets. I've tried them. Yeah. Even if you're paying attention to, you know, other ways to restock glycogen performance drops off.

1 (1h 4m 15s):
Whereas with Slow Carb Diet, I feel like I can think I can work, I can exercise, I can sleep, like everything just works well. But there's one thing in it that I wanted to raise that I, when I heard this, I thought, there's no way this is true. Which was making sure that you get 30 or so grams of Protein within 30 minutes of waking. Yeah. and I thought, how can that be? Like how can adding Protein early in the day actually make a difference? And, it really did work. I was, I still track my numbers. So in terms of dropping body fat percentage, increasing muscle, it really does work. Now whether or not that's simply because it's offsetting food Intake that I would've food that I would've taken in later in the day, I don't know. Yeah. and I don't, I'm not gonna make myself my own control Experiment to the point that I drive myself crazy.

1 (1h 4m 56s):
Yeah. But it really does work Yeah. Quite well to get past sticking points. Yeah. To just get that 30 grams of Protein early. So sort of violate the, in the time restricted feeding component deliberately with some Protein in the morning. Yep. Then still train and do all the other things and you know, carry on as usual And. it, it's just so, it seems so peculiar, like eating more and, and losing body fat. But it works.

2 (1h 5m 18s):
Yeah. It's counterintuitive and a lot of approaches can work for a lot of different people Right. To state the obvious. But this particular aspect of the Slow Carb Diet is helpful for, let's just say the majority of the people in that thousand person sample I was talking about the hypothetical pull from different parts of say the US or anywhere because it it, it seems to help with a few things. First, there's just the thermic effect of food and for Protein there's a greater thermic effect. You also have and I think there's, there's decent, at the time there was decent literature to support this. So I don't know if it's changed that the Protein Intake along those lines has an appetite suppressing effect.

2 (1h 6m 5s):
So the, the net daily calories consumed tends to be less when someone has a higher Protein meal earlier in the day. And last but not least, I will say one of the risks, and there are many people who execute well on this, but you have to be very meticulous, which is true of the ketogenic diet as well. It, you can get yourself into a lot of trouble If, you do it 60% right? Or 70% Right. You're really in there. Yeah. In there. You can get

1 (1h 6m 28s):
Yourself in in there. Massive psoriasis. I mean my scalp, you know, sloughing off like when I'm in ketosis and I going like, what the hell is going on here? Going back on some complex carbohydrates, And it going away. Yeah, exactly. So yeah, I don't need, I don't need a Randomized control trial to know, I simply don't wanna run that experi,

2 (1h 6m 45s):
Use your scalp. Yeah. So in the case of say time, time-restricted feeding, some people who do intermittent Fasting lose a lot of muscle mass. And there are multiple reasons for this. I, I think people should make use of relatively widely available tools like DEXA and so on to ensure that your composition is actually moving the way you think it's moving. Make sure you standardize your hydration for that as well as time of day. Just pro tip, that's true for blood tests as well, but it seems to get net, net better effects than trying to teach people how to fast effectively, which you can do. And we can talk about Fasting, that's something that was not included in the four Hour Body that were I to rewrite it.

2 (1h 7m 30s):
Today I would include a section and there was a bit in Tools of Titans to address that on more Extended fasts, let's just call it three to seven day fasts. So that's an area that's of of great interest to me as is ketosis and metabolic psychiatry. I'll Chris Palmer. Yeah. Who we both know

1 (1h 7m 48s):
Incredible. I mean, what he's, what the awakening that he's created through his book and going on your podcast, my podcast and others, and you know, letting people be aware that changes in diet can impact mental health. So I think in two, three years it's gonna be a duh. Yeah. And we're not just talking about the difference between, you know, slamming back horrible foods, horrible for us foods versus eating really clean. I mean really specific diet protocols to treat mental health. Yeah. It's incredible.

2 (1h 8m 20s):
Yeah. Super exciting. So that's, that's one of the things that I'm paying a lot of attention to right now. They're a handful in that realm within the, just say the, the interplay of mind and body since the car Cartesian duality and separation of this too makes no sense from a biological standpoint. So that's, that's something that's certainly captured my attention. and I paid a lot of attention to even as far back as early two thousands for mental health and just cognitive performance.

Inside Tracker (1h 8m 48s):
I'd like to take a quick break and thank our Sponsor Inside Tracker Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health can only be assessed with a quality blood test. The problem with a lot of blood and d n a tests out there, however, is that they'll give you information about certain lipid markers or hormone markers, but no information about what to do with all of that data. Inside Tracker makes it very easy to look at your levels of hormones, metabolic factors, lipids, et cetera, and then to assess what sorts of behavioral nutritional supplementation or perhaps other interventions you might want to use in order to bring those numbers into the ranges that are optimal for your health. For this week, only the week of June 19th, 2023, InsideTracker is offering a buy one get one free on their ultimate plan. This is their best discount of the year. You can get this offer by going to InsideTracker dot com slash Huberman. Again, that's Inside Tracker dot com slash Huberman.

2 (1h 9m 53s):
Thanks for revisiting some of the four Hour Body and Slow Carb Diet and elaborating on some of the process that went into that. and I think creators of all kinds, thinkers of all kinds, and people who are interested in the contents of the four Hour Body are going to be very grateful for that information. I certainly am fascinated by your process. One of the things that you mentioned along the lines of process was, you know, the power of places and where one happens to live.

1 (1h 10m 21s):
I think there's a, a essay by Paul Graham that talks about this. It's a little outdated. Yeah. You know, And, it talks about the messages that you, the tacit messages of being in certain cities. I think it was, you know, like Boston, you're not smart enough. What was it was New York, you're not powerful enough and not you, I always just thinking and or you should be more powerful as the message, like the tacit message Los Angeles, what you're, what you're doing. People aren't paying attention, paying enough attention to it. Something like that. Yeah, totally. The tacit messages, these are stereotypes about cities. Certainly cities change the role of places is an interesting one.

1 (1h 11m 3s):
Like you, you know, you mentioned, you know, small gathering, Kevin Kelly's house, quantified Self and I think for people who don't know people like that. Right. Maybe we could get your thoughts on, you know, how would one think about where to live and, and maybe even curating their own gatherings, useful gatherings. Because it's not that, I have to imagine it's not that you guys sat back and you're like, I'm Tim Ferriss. And he's like, I'm Kevin Kelly, let's have a gathering so we can talk about it in a few years on a podcast. This stuff happens. That word, you know, it's a dangerous word organically. Yeah. When people who have common interests decide to get together and talk and listen and brainstorm.

1 (1h 11m 44s):
And I'm yet to do that in a, you know, with good people and not have something really incredible come out of it. Not necessarily that day. Yeah. But looking five years, looking back, five years later and just going, God, that was really worthwhile. Totally. Yeah.

2 (1h 11m 59s):
Few thoughts in no particular order. I would say the first is, it depends, my recommendations depend a lot on where you are in the arc of your career in life. If, you are in full growth hyperdrive mode and you are trying to build both yourself and your capabilities in a very concentrated way where you're not necessarily focused, focused on family. You maybe have fewer obligations then if you're serious. I think many people should consider moving to an area of high density for a period of time. It could be three months, it could be six months, could be longer.

2 (1h 12m 41s):
But putting yourself in a New York or in LA or a San Francisco or Chicago or as new places develop, I'll, I'll give you one you might not expect, say in Ottawa, Canada, where Shopify is based and the presence and growth of Shopify has spawned an entire ecosystem of startups. So there may be options outside of the usual cast of characters, Pittsburgh and Duolingo, similar effect. So there are more options than people might recognize. But taking a journey and placing yourself in a place where you can be in a very active pinball machine where you may interact serendipitously with many different people from many different worlds, I think is is is hard to overstate the value of and my drive and my filtering function, let's just say.

2 (1h 13m 40s):
Cause when I first got to the Bay Area, nobody cared about me. I was nobody. I was driving. My mom's used minivan hand-me-down that had the seats stolen out of the back. It looked terrible.

1 (1h 13m 48s):
Were you in the, were you in the South Bay?

2 (1h 13m 50s):
I was, I was working in San Jose.

1 (1h 13m 52s):
Yep. I mean, no disrespect to San Jose. I'm from the South Bay. Yep. But there's a, there's a bleakness to the South Bay.

2 (1h 13m 58s):
There is, there is a little bit of bleakness. And then I lived across the street in this tiny apartment, lived across the street from the Jack in the Box in Mountain View. So it's not like I was strolling onto the big stage and just blowing people away.

1 (1h 14m 9s):
Oh, oh, I, I, I, I grew up right near Mountain View. I'm very familiar. I probably skated the curves at that Jack in the, probably did. Did you train at the Gold's Gym in Off Ring store? I did actually. Amazing. Yeah. Yeah. That was a great gym. That was a great gym. That was a great gym. I don't think it's still there. I'd

2 (1h 14m 23s):
Go there super late before my writing sessions. Okay. And. it had the benefit of being open really, really late. And Wow. Rank story. I haven't thought about that in a long time. So the, the point is, I also started where a lot of people are starting and what did I do? I put myself in a high density environment. Next, what did I do? Knowing no one, I started to volunteer at events where they had interesting speakers and interesting people coming to hear those speakers. So I put myself in Silicon Valley and then I began Volunteering for groups like S Vase, I don't know if it exists anymore. The Silicon Valley Association of Startup Entrepreneurs, I think it was Thai, the Indu Entrepreneur, which is a very sort of Indian or Indian American focused organization that does a lot in the realm of startups.

2 (1h 15m 14s):
and I would carry water. I would take out garbage. I would check name badges, I would check people in. Nothing was too low for me. and I give you guys a tip that will be obvious to some, but non-obvious to many when you are Volunteering, a lot of folks who volunteer do the absolute bare minimum because they're not getting paid. This is not gonna get you noticed, but it sets a very low bar so that If, you volunteer at these events and someone's dropping the ball or there's something happening that needs fixing and you just proactively do it. The producers of these events will notice you. And this is what happened over time, over a few months.

2 (1h 15m 55s):
And then I got invited to join in on meetings that were planning future events. and I eventually got to the point where I was recruiting speakers and able to set the agenda for an entire main event. And then that's how I got to know, say Jack Canfield, who is the co-creator of Chicken Soup for the Soul and many others who introduced me to my book agent many, many, many, many years later. Jack Canfield. But I was a nobody then. You have to play the long game. But you can be methodical on how you play that. And that is one approach, just as an example for how to build your network, which snowballs over time. Don't hump every VIP's leg within 10 minutes of meeting them.

2 (1h 16m 38s):
Play it cool,

1 (1h 16m 40s):
You know? And the LA and the gatherings where that person is, has a lot of demands on them, is the last place you want to do that, right?

2 (1h 16m 47s):
Yeah. The way you're gonna make

1 (1h 16m 48s):
Yourself memorable, no saliency to that.

2 (1h 16m 49s):
Right? The way you're gonna make yourself memorable with people like that is to be very professional, always on time, predict what they're going to need or problem they'll run into beforehand and address them before they even think of them. And be easy to deal with. And people like that. High performers notice these things. They will make note of it.

1 (1h 17m 10s):
Yeah. The being easy to work with is something that I used to tell my graduate students. Postdocs. I mean, because the opposite of that. Nobody wants Yeah, right. Nobody wants that. Yeah.

2 (1h 17m 21s):
Especially in the beginning, like later, okay, great. You're Steve Jobs, you wanna be difficult here and there, or a lot, no problem. Yeah, right. But in the beginning, that can be a real liability. You can make up for that if you're the best in the world. But in the very beginning, you probably won't be. So try to stack the deck in your favor. Volunteering is a shortcut. And that would be one way of doing it. Another, now, especially given the virtual communities that exist. So you have subreddits, you have online communities, you have Twitter groups, you have Clubhouse, you've got a million different options, which can be overwhelming.

1 (1h 17m 55s):
Clubhouse still going,

2 (1h 17m 57s):
Maybe not, I have no idea.

1 (1h 17m 58s):
Oh no, I don't know. I'm not saying it's gone. I just, I remember during the pandemic, there were some clubhouse gatherings. I hopped on there and, but I've sort of forgotten to, to get on that.

2 (1h 18m 5s):
Maybe not the, the platform Affinity is really fickle, which is why I think to the extent possible, If, you wanna build a world-class and I use that term very deliberately. Network in record time. Just to give you a nice head headline, I would say focus on the Uncrowded channel, which is in person, it's out of fashion, it's out of vogue. Going to a conference and actually interacting with humans in the hallway, approaching panelists. This is another thing that I did. I'll give it, I'll give another tip. So very early on I would go to conferences. Nobody cared who I was, nobody knew who I was. Fine. and I would study the panels.

2 (1h 18m 45s):
Let's say I'm going to a big event like South by Southwest. and I would, this is what I did in 2007, which was just prior to the first book coming out. and I would go to these various in-person events. I was focused mostly on events that had the, the thematic focus of blogs. We could come back to that. But blogs were what podcasts were a few years ago, right? They drove incredible traffic, but they were undervalued by mainstream media, undervalued by mainstream publishers, et cetera. Which meant there was an arbitrage opportunity in a way. and I would pick, say, a handful of panels with topics I thought were super interesting.

2 (1h 19m 26s):
And then the panel would end. And what would happen, the panelists would get rushed by various spokes because many of 'em were well known who was not getting rushed. The moderator, I would go straight to the moderator and I would talk to the moderator. I'd thank them for the panel. I'd be very genuine. None of it was made up. And talk to them for a bit. They would generally ask why I was there, what I was interested in. And I would mention whatever that happened to be. In this case it was, I'm finishing my first book where I had my first book coming out soon. I'm here to hopefully meet people who are involved with A, B, or C. And then if we hit it off, which was not true every time, but if it seemed to be going well, I would say is, I don't know anyone here.

2 (1h 20m 7s):
I'm really sort of orphaned here, making my way through this entire event. Is there anyone else here you think I would get along with who maybe I could buy a drink or a coffee. And the vast majority of the time they'd be like, oh yeah, you should meet so-and-so. And then I get the introduction and then I would meet that person. I would have a genuine interaction with that person. And if it made sense, if things were going well, I'd do the same thing. Is there anybody else here you think I should just say hi to? and I get along with not who I can ask for something. And that wasn't deception. I was being honest, like someone I could actually vibe with.

2 (1h 20m 46s):
And if so, would you mind making the intro? Well, yeah, sure. No problem. Many of those people are still my friends. And by being surgical in that way, not trying to gather business cards to use it really antiquated metaphor point,

1 (1h 21m 3s):
People will still hand 'em

2 (1h 21m 4s):
Out. Yeah. People still hand 'em out, I guess. Depends on where you are, especially like Boston. But if, if rather than trying to collect people as Pokemon cards developing, say five, three to five deeper relationships through longer conversations at an event, that is what directly led ultimately to the hockey stick for the four hour work week within tech within specifically San Francisco. So those would be a few approaches for, for Building, Your Network. When you don't have the ability to just walk up to say Kevin Kelly and have a conversation that came over time.

1 (1h 21m 43s):
Yeah. Whether or not it's health practices or nutritional practices or at meetings seems you're oriented toward the uncrowded, but very interesting people in spaces. But the keyword there I think is uncrowded. And. of course the other key word is interesting, right? I mean, it's not like you're standing in the parking lot talking to whoever happens to be there. Although that can be interesting, right? Yeah. There's a serendipity there. And you know, there's always things to learn from people. But in terms of career advancement and, and building new ideas and forging for information, I'm just struck how you've done that over and over.

1 (1h 22m 23s):
and again, thank you for giving us some insight into the process. I Another one please.

2 (1h 22m 27s):
All right, here's another one. So I think there's a tendency among people who want to develop their networks or their relationships to be star fuckers. Not to get too technical, but

1 (1h 22m 40s):
That's a technical term. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

2 (1h 22m 43s):
They want to tell other people they are friends with someone more than they want to develop skills or learn from someone. This puts you in a very disadvantaged position. Cuz then that means, alright, you wanna become friends with Elon Musk, good luck. Or you wanna become friends with this Alister celebrity who everyone else wants to meet. Good luck. It's gonna be a crowded bloody path to get there. And by the way, they've also certainly developed really attuned defenses against people like you. So it's gonna be hard on the other.

1 (1h 23m 17s):
But they have staff to prevent from happening. They

2 (1h 23m 19s):
Have a foul length of protectors to prevent you from ever getting to that person. On the other hand, if you're approaching it from the standpoint of Developing Skills learning and actually becoming potential friends with someone, I'll give you an example. You could go after you wanna become better at boxing. Let's just make that up. Alright. Maybe not the greatest example. Skiing would be another one. But let's, let's stick with boxing just because of the way I'll explain it. If, you wanted to say, get personalized lessons from Floyd Mayweather. And. it can happen. Okay, let's go then. Maybe a step down outta the pro ranks to gold medalist.

2 (1h 23m 60s):
Okay. If it's brand new gold medalist, let's just say like Oscar de La Jolla, when he was really the golden boy And, it just thrashed everyone. Still gonna be hard. What about the silver medalist who just had a bad day when he had that last bout against Oscar de La Jolla? Potentially, right? From a technical perspective, from a personal connection perspective, you may have more in common with that person or bronze medalist and they can get you 70, 80, 90% of the way there. And by the way, you probably don't have the physical attributes to make it to a hundred percent anyway if you're coming to it this late. And you could get, in many cases, one-on-one lessons, whether in person or virtually with someone who is of that caliber.

2 (1h 24m 44s):
They're in the same front of the pack as the names I just mentioned. Maybe not as famous. A hundred bucks, 200 bucks per hour for a lot of people that is within reach.

1 (1h 24m 56s):
Yeah. And I'm not sure what the value of saying one knows somebody very famous is. It's just never been something that I've oriented to.

2 (1h 25m 5s):
It's a common orientation though. Yeah. And I think that's true for a lot of things. Like many people use say Psychedelics, because they want to tell other people the story that they have of doing Psychedelics. Right? They're not doing it intrinsically for what they hope to get out of that experience. Maybe there's part of them, but it's more the social signaling and validation they get when they project that out at a group dinner into a story that they can tell. And that's true for many things. So one of the questions I ask myself with all sorts of things, if I could never talk about this, would I do it?

1 (1h 25m 39s):
What a, what a great, great right thing to think about, right?

2 (1h 25m 44s):
Like if I could, if I could have, let's just say we didn't know each other and I was like, okay, I'm earlier in my career, let's apply some constraints. So I'm not where I am, I still want to do A, B and C in the public eye. Maybe I wanna build a podcast. Whoever, if I could meet with you, but I could never tell a soul, would I do it?

1 (1h 26m 1s):
I don't know. Would you? I would thank you. I would, I would. But I would too. But,

2 (1h 26m 5s):
But for a lot of folks,

1 (1h 26m 6s):
If they, meaning I'd meet with you, I'm not saying I'd meet with me, by the way. I'd meet with me. You know, the, believe me, I meet with me all the time and sometimes it's pretty unpleasant. Yeah.

2 (1h 26m 16s):
And, and that can be applied to all sorts of things, right? It's like And, it's, it's a useful question. Cause I asked myself this for Examining your motivations. And I'm not saying one Motivation is always better than another, but it's, it's, you, you should at least be aware of your driving motivations because you can end up playing games. You're not even aware you're playing. And that's how you end up, I think getting into a lot of trouble in life. One of the ways, so that would be a question I might apply. I apply other questions. Like, there's a great question that Seth Godin applies who really I admire tremendously and has built an incredibly unorthodox, unique life for himself and his family. He's, he's, he's zigged when everyone would expect him to zag and I, I, and he always has a defensible logic behind it and much like Derek Ss, but most people have probably heard the hypothetical question, like, what would you do If?

2 (1h 27m 9s):
you knew you couldn't fail, right? Or what would you do? If you couldn't fail. And Seth turns that around, I think that's a good question. But he turns around and he said, what would you do If? you knew you were gonna fail in terms of identifying what you would do for the process, right? What would you do, If? you knew it was gonna fail. Okay, you're considering these five different projects, let's say they're all gonna fail, but you still have to choose one of the five. Which would you choose?

1 (1h 27m 34s):
Yeah, that's a great question. Yeah. Much harder to answer. Yeah. And you know, at the same time, I'm called back to when I was a graduate student and still now with the podcast I have this litmus test, which is, you know, is the Experiment that I'm working on. The one that I want to be working on most is the podcast that I'm working on, the one that I want to be working on most. I mean, there's truly no other podcast I'd rather be having today than this one, right? And the moment I'm starting to think, oh, I wish I was doing that thing over there, I realize I'm off target. I'm off target. And I think that asking really Good Questions is something clearly that you're very good at.

1 (1h 28m 16s):
And getting a little bit deeper into your process around that, do you write those things down? Like is there a notebook someplace in the kingdom of, of Tim Ferriss in Austin or elsewhere that says, you know, those questions that, that essentially those questions are written. Are they? Yeah,

2 (1h 28m 33s):
I collect, I, I literally have a document with questions that I've gathered from Seth printed out and at the Airbnb where I'm staying here. So I'm, I'm you brought

1 (1h 28m 42s):
It with you.

2 (1h 28m 42s):
Yeah, I printed it out here. Great. And then I went through and I read it last night. and I was highlighting questions from past interviews I've had with him on my podcast to revisit his questions. So I, I was literally doing that last night over dinner. and I collect questions. I collect questions if I am reading a magazine and I come across a good question. I take, I take a photo or I capture it somehow in notes or in Evernote, which I know is kind of old fashioned these days, but I've used it for everything. So the critical masses beyond enormous and I do collect and revisit these things. I capture them in journals as well, but I, I absolutely capture Good Questions when I find them

1 (1h 29m 23s):
Questions are so powerful for the brain. I don't wanna go into this in too much detail cause I have a lot more questions for you, but we just wrapped a, a series on mental health that will come out later this year with Paul Conti. And he is brilliant, as we both know and does truly important work. And, and he pointed to the value of asking really Good Questions about oneself. And the, because of the way that questions that are really directed at self inquiry queue up the subconscious. So you, you asked the question, and unlike a statement or a meme, the brain works with that in, in the days and hours after asking the question in ways that simple declarative statements probably don't ping the system the same way.

1 (1h 30m 8s):
Which is probably why we can see so many points of wisdom and truth everywhere, And it doesn't necessarily transform us. But asking really Good Questions really does seem to transform us.

2 (1h 30m 18s):
Yeah, there, there's, I think judging people by their questions is, is also a shortcut to assessing and learning a lot about how someone functions and what makes them tick. I think it was Aire who said, you know, judge a man by his questions, not by his answers. Something along those lines. But when in doubt attribute to Voltaire, it sounds good. Does sound good? and I think about this a lot. I do think about the questions and I refine the questions that I ask myself, especially while journaling, because it's easier to cross examine and stress test your own certainty and beliefs when they're captured on paper or digitally on a laptop for instance.

2 (1h 31m 4s):
So I, I do routinely revisit certain questions that I've found helpful over time. I mean one that people can play with is with whatever is really causing you consternation or stress at the moment. Some kind of decision or relationship business could be anything. Just what might this look like if it were easy, right? What might this look like? If it were easy, if it had to be easy, if that were possible, what might it look like?

1 (1h 31m 32s):
And that could apply to anything.

2 (1h 31m 33s):
Yeah, it could apply to anything, you know, could apply to, could apply to fitness. It's like look, If, you do really intense kettlebell swings twice a week with proper weight and load and time under tension and you do pushups a few times a week and handle a couple of other elements. You can get in pretty good shape. It's so simple but hits a lot, I mean, hits your entire posterior chain. Okay fine, do some pushups and some core work. But If, you are not exercising at all because you've made the assumption that it's four hours, five hours a week rather than completely remove that objective and call it just impractical.

2 (1h 32m 19s):
Can you ratchet down the scale? How far can you ratchet down the scale until you have no excuses? Right? That would just be one one. Example, language learning, tech, investing, it applies to everything. Yeah.

1 (1h 32m 32s):
Making life easier is something that definitely gets my vote. Yeah,

2 (1h 32m 36s):
Making it easier and making it more elegant. Right? The more pieces in your life you have floating around, the more contacts, the more extraneous loose connections, the harder your life is gonna be. The cognitive overload or overhead is really high. So I'm always looking for maybe like Japanese and a flower range. It's like, okay, how, how many pieces can I remove while still like maintaining the essence of what I'm trying to achieve?

1 (1h 33m 1s):
You and Rick Rubin, man, I'm telling you, you know, two people I am fortunate enough to know personally and that I have tremendous respect for and you know, the work and is self-evident. You know, it's really remarkable. So rewind that and listen to that segment right there, folks. I'm telling you I've worked hard to apply it because it's not my default. And boy does it make a significant improvement to simplify, simplify, simplify, take some thought and question asking. It's like you just can't delete things at random. Yeah. So you get down to some fixed number. But I'd like to ask you about another area where you really have seemed to see around corners. And this is one that actually carried with it significant risk, not necessarily risk to health and to life, but risk in terms of outside perceptions.

1 (1h 33m 52s):
And that's Psychedelics as you know. I've substantially changed my view on this. We don't need to go into my former stance on it. I talked about that when you were gracious enough to host me on your podcast for a second time. I'd done some Psychedelics recreationally as a kid. It was correlated with not so great times in my life. Stayed away from them. Then eventually revisited MDMA in particular from a therapeutic standpoint found tremendous benefit again therapeutically with a medical doctor. Again, these drugs are illegal soon to change perhaps, hopefully. And we'll talk about that. But it's becoming clear from the controlled studies by Robin Carter Harris, there are many others, okay, Nolan Williams, others that these drugs have enormous potential to help relieve depression, trauma, help people explore their psyche, their mind for sake of feeling better, doing better in the world for leaning into life.

1 (1h 34m 49s):
Not to an in drop out, but you know, to really lean into life with more purpose and more satisfaction in some cases. They've really have saved lives, I think. What was your mindset around Psychedelics when you first started exploring them? What led you to overcome the inevitable, you know, fear gap there? Because you do seem like somebody who takes value in your health, right? You're not reckless. You may have been more adventurous in the past with things like, I hate the word, but biohacking and self experimentation than you are now. But, but you obviously have some self preservation mechanism intact. in fact, we learn,

2 (1h 35m 29s):
We learn,

1 (1h 35m 30s):
We learn what was your mindset around it at the time? And then I want to get to what you've learned from it. And frankly the tremendous efforts that you've put that are now translating to tremendous value for really millions of people. And ultimately I think it's going to be billions of people by establishing funding for the pioneering research in this area, helping to promote the movement of these compounds from illegal to legal in the therapeutic setting. So on and so on. So take us back to your first thoughtful exploration of Psychedelics. What'd that look like? You're like, oh, mushrooms, I'll eat 'em.

1 (1h 36m 10s):
Was that it or was it, or was it a, a dedicated research process and who'd you talk to? What, what was it all about?

2 (1h 36m 21s):
So let's go way back to my undergrad experience. And there were many reasons that I ended up going to Princeton. I, I think I was very lucky to get in my s a t scores cause I could never finish the damn test. I was so much of a perfectionist. I'd get stuck and ended up not doing terribly well. But through essays and other things, ultimately was able to go part of the

1 (1h 36m 43s):
Draw. Well let me interrupt you and just say, I think at this point we can say they were lucky to have you. Well

2 (1h 36m 48s):
Thank you for saying that. Yeah, yeah. Thank you for saying

1 (1h 36m 50s):
That. Yeah. Great institution and you've done great and you're a, a great poster on the wall for them. Yeah, really. I hope so. Really, really? Yeah. I, I just wanna say it cuz you're not going to and I think it's important that these are great institutions of great minds. Go through there and you know, Einstein went through there. Yeah, he did. He did. And and their success rests not just on the Einsteins, but also on the student body and what they go out into the world and do. Yeah. And not just in the realm of science. So yeah. Really they're lucky. They're lucky to have

2 (1h 37m 18s):
Had you. Yeah, thank you. Andrew. I studied Chinese in a room where Einstein used to teach. It's pretty cool to set foot and spend time weekly in a space that was shared by some of these people. Amazing. It really, it really gets the imagination firing. If we go back to that chapter in my life, I was initially a psychology major with focus on neuroscience. So I wanted to be a neuroscientist. And there are many reasons for that. I have neurodegenerative disease on both sides of my family. So Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. So that was certainly a personal driving interest in terms of looking at mechanisms, understanding what therapeutics existed or did not exist, how things were developing in the research.

2 (1h 38m 5s):
And while I was there, which later I ended up switching gears and transferring to focus on language acquisition and East Asian studies, hence the Chinese that I mentioned earlier, and Japanese and Korean. But on the neuroscience side, there were a lot of cool breakthroughs also that came out of Princeton around that time looking at the amazing discovery of say neuronal, I wouldn't wanna say Regenesis, but neurogenesis and the hippocampus, remember? Yeah. Ms. Goulds were Exactly, yeah, exactly. Very familiar, familiar with that. So there was quite a bit happening at that time. I was a subject, I loved Volunteering for studies, just to try to get an inside look at how things were done in some of Daniel Kahneman's experiments.

2 (1h 38m 50s):
So it was, it was a cool time to be there. And within the first two years, I wanna say I had my first experience recreationally with mushrooms. And looking back now, I mean, I'm horrified by just the lack of control and meaning, not control, but lack of supervision. Right? I mean, the setting, the set and setting ended up being fine. Nothing terrible happened, but there were a lot of ways it could have gone sideways. But that first experience and I must have consumed in retrospect, just a dizzying amount of mushrooms. I mean,

1 (1h 39m 24s):
To be in excess of five grams.

2 (1h 39m 25s):
I see. It would've been more, yeah, just knowing what I know now. It would've been kids,

1 (1h 39m 29s):
Kids don't do this at all. Don't, don't do that. I'm not, I'm not gonna say don't do it at home. Don't do it at all. Yeah, yeah. Please. I don't think, I actually don't think the young developing brain should be exposed to Psychedelics. We could talk about that. Well we can talk about that. Yeah, we can talk. I'm gonna take my stance. I'm gonna take stance. Well, for now,

2 (1h 39m 46s):
I mean, in, in the world in which we live, in the us I would, I would totally agree with you. There are some interesting cultural exceptions in other places where there things are more set up to provide for that type of use. But I certainly would not recommend it. But, but coming back to my, my recreational experience, my, my subjective experience was so bizarre. And my experience of time, so non-linear, my experience of self so different from anything I had experienced up to that point. And therefore my construction of reality being so completely unlike anything I had experienced was enough to make me want to learn about these compounds.

2 (1h 40m 35s):
And very early on, I still have a scan of it somewhere, I think it was in 1998 or 99, I actually wrote a paper, one of my junior papers was focused on Examining potential similarities between r e m sleep and lsd, LSD 25. And looking at some of the patterns of, of Neural activity. Of course we can do a lot more now with, with the tools that we have available. But from a scientific perspective, I was very curious about how much we knew and how much we didn't know. and I would say that latter category gets me more excited in a way.

2 (1h 41m 17s):
And I'm like, okay, how, how much room is there for growth here? Right? Because if, if we're just putting on the finishing touches with marginal, you know, incremental improvements on something that we feel like we've largely figured out, that's less interesting to me than something that baffles most people. Examining them on some level. And there was a professor named Barry Jacobs who was doing some very interesting work. He did a lot of work looking at the serotonergic systems and did a lot of work with cats. Ultimately, I could not do personally the animal work required of the sort of indentured servitude that I would, would

1 (1h 41m 56s):
Take. I think you rode someplace once, you know, you, you said, you know, when confronted with the, the prospect of installing a a, a computer printer into the head of cat,

2 (1h 42m 6s):
Oh printer jack

1 (1h 42m 6s):
On the, the cat head on the back of a cat head. They,

2 (1h 42m 9s):
They literally had those, like those little VGA ports Yeah. On the back of these cat's heads, because cats sleep a lot. And so they're an interesting study. Yeah.

1 (1h 42m 17s):
A lot of that cats, very few laboratories work on cats any longer. It's mostly a mouse, still some non-human primate work. My laboratory is essentially shut down or is in the process of shutting down even our mouse work. I much prefer to work on humans. They can give consent and they house themselves. And the animal research thing is tough for any, for any sentient being Yeah,

2 (1h 42m 37s):
It's tough. It's tough. The cat, for what it's worth, the cats seemed pretty happy. Like they were just sleeping. I mean the, the ports were for tracking. So the cats were pretty, I mean they were just normal cats. The cats were fine, but I would've been, we would've been injecting retroviruses into rats and then perfusing them, which means bleeding them to death to avoid bruising of the tissue. Because then If, you're gonna take thin slices and scans. You didn't wanna have bruising and I just couldn't, I just couldn't do it. I think it's important. I do think, I do think there's a place for it, but I couldn't do it. So that's why I transferred out. But the, the point I was trying to make is that I had the experience and then I had that drive the scientific interest.

2 (1h 43m 18s):
And then I had a, a probably one experience per year for a few years after that. And what I noticed for myself personally, because I suffered from major depressive disorder, an Extended depre depressive episodes, let's just say on average three to four a year. And by by Extended

1 (1h 43m 38s):
Even before you had started all this. Oh, even

2 (1h 43m 40s):
Before. Yeah.

1 (1h 43m 41s):
From, from a young age. Yeah.

2 (1h 43m 42s):
From very young age. and I would say, so let's just call it three to four on average a year. Those could last each a few weeks or a few months. I mean, this is, this is a, a very high percentage of my total year. And when I had these higher dose experiences with, with mushrooms, so we're talking about sib mushrooms, and then if we're looking at the molecule that's being examined scientifically, psilocybin, I noticed this afterglow effect that was really durable and that was an antidepressant effect or a mood elevating effect that lasted far longer than the half-life could explain, right? Because four to six hours, you're, you're, you're kind of on the other side.

2 (1h 44m 24s):
and I would experience this, this afterglow effect for three to six months. And that raised all sorts of interesting questions. What the hell is going on here? Is it the content? Is it some structural change? There were a lot of unanswered questions for me. And then I had a very, very scary experience that led me to completely stop use of Psychedelics were again, uncontrolled environment. Ended up in rural, in rural New York, coming out of my trip, standing in the middle of the road, in the middle of the night with headlights coming at me. Goodness gracious. So you don't wanna do that? Yeah. and I was like, okay, too dangerous. Were

1 (1h 45m 2s):
Were you taking them alone? Is that

2 (1h 45m 3s):
How that is? I was taking them with two friends and my two friends without telling me, just went for a walk and left me alone. Yeah. So don't do that. Well

1 (1h 45m 10s):
Points to the, you know, I mean the, there, these are powerful compounds.

2 (1h 45m 13s):
Yeah. You're playing, you're, you're playing with nuclear power like these, these are the, this is the nuclear power of like psychological or psychoemotional surgery is, is the way I'd encourage people to think about them. and I stopped using any Psychedelics completely. I was still very interested in them, but I basically hit pause and I didn't revisit that until, let's call it 2012, 2013, where I was still struggling with major depressive disorder. and I saw my girlfriend at the time completely transformed by supervised facilitated use of, in this case ayahuasca, which was not quite as common as it is in conversation at the time.

2 (1h 46m 2s):
And she did that in South America. But she not only explained her experience, but I was able to see the transformation in her that seemed to have some durability over time. And that is when I started stepping back into researching Psychedelics, looking at what had been published in the last, let's just call it 10 years as of that point in time. And thinking about how I would approach it systematically with safeguards, with proper supervision, basically approaching it the way I would've approached any of the topics in the four Hour Body.

2 (1h 46m 43s):
And that is what led me back into, along with a number of other interventions I should say. So I wasn't betting the farm on Psychedelics. I also started TM at that point. I was, I was,

1 (1h 46m 55s):
You just, some people might trans transcend Meditation. These are like four to 10 day Meditation Retreats.

2 (1h 47m 2s):
This was actually much shorter. It was a two or three day training. And you're visiting the instructor, I wanna say it's once or twice a day, probably once a day. And getting up to speed. and I did this because I was going through an a period of acute stress. This was finishing the four hour chef, this was actually probably in the years preceding that. and I had one friend who I'd seen really change from, let's just call Hyperkinetic high anxiety to low anxiety. And he said, you have the time. You have the money. Pay for the course. Just take it. Yes, there are all these criticisms of tm. Yes.

2 (1h 47m 42s):
There are all these weird historical anecdotes of people trying to levitate and all this weirdness. Just ignore that.

1 (1h 47m 47s):
I'm trying to levitate nothing against that. If. you actually levitate then we gotta have a discussion. But trying to levitate seems like it. Yeah, why not? You know, every kid, every kid tries all sorts of things. Give it a go.

2 (1h 47m 57s):
He's like, just put that aside because I, I kept coming up with pushback and he's like, look, all I'm saying is it's like a warm bath for your mind that you take twice a day, And, it'll chill. You the fuck out. So try it. and I was like, okay, fine. It's a good endorsement. I was like, I was like, at this point I was, I had been burning the candle at both ends so intensely. It's like, okay. So there was tm and then I began Examining how I might approach notice. I didn't just jump into using them. I was like, how could I approach taking Psychedelics in a sequence, in a logical sequence with proper protections, with safety assurances? And that took me probably a month or two and I was right in the middle of things. And northern California you have access to a lot.

2 (1h 48m 39s):
And only then did I start looking at having my own experiences. And lo and behold, I mean I'll, I'll cut to the chase, but the, the personal outcome and there, there are many different benefits and risks I should make very clear. These things can be extremely dangerous in certain ways, generally not physiologically, but they can be dangerous. I would say instead of three to four times per year on average, I probably have one depressive episode every two years.

1 (1h 49m 12s):
That's a significant improvement. Yeah.

2 (1h 49m 14s):
Right. I mean from a quality of life perspective, those are two different people. And that then led me to and I as I did with all my workouts, right? I took copious notes over the span. I mean now we're looking at 10 plus years. So if I were to ever write another book, it would probably be related to all of the really fine details of the experiments and my learnings including some of the more ba bizarre things over the last 10 years. But it would be a, it would be just a beast to create. So

1 (1h 49m 52s):
With, with Psychedelics experiences, with Psychedelics,

2 (1h 49m 55s):
Psychedelics and sort of Psychedelic adjacent non-ordinary experiences of consciousness, which I think often are touching at edges of the same thing, which, which is gonna be controversial for some folks. But to, to come back to the storyline, just to put a bow on that, when I saw the personal outcomes for me, the anecdote from friends who are facilitators who have worked with thousands of people, right? Which is a pretty good sample size, still anecdote. But these are people who are very smart, who keep records and I, I believe that these people have spotted patterns that are only going to be possible to test and verify over the next five to 10 years.

2 (1h 50m 43s):
So I, I, at least as a, as a means of generating hypotheses, I take these people very seriously. And then I started to connect with scientists whose work I had read, like Roland Griffiths at Johns Hopkins began looking at the most compelling data related to say, MDMA assisted psychotherapy and complex P T S D I. I made the commitment to myself that as soon as I had enough money to move the Dyl, cause I really felt like these tools were so out outside of the normal paradigm of psychiatry and pharmacology. And that made me very excited because it was uncrowded, there's very little funding coming into the space.

2 (1h 51m 27s):
It was high leverage and I looked at it just as I've looked at my many startup investments, limited downside risk, really high upside potential. and I should say, before that I had already been funding in a very small way, science. So the first check I ever wrote was personally to Adam Gal's lab at U C S F.

1 (1h 51m 48s):
Oh yeah. Great lab.

2 (1h 51m 49s):
Yeah. Which at the time was looking at software. He's not gonna like this description, but I'm gonna simplify it. Software that might attenuate or reverse age related cognitive impairment, speci specifically related to various aspects of, of attention. And that was my first foray into funding early stage science, which was very analogous to me of to, to funding early stage startups. And then later on to touch on the reputational thing. I know this is a TED talk, so thank you for listening.

1 (1h 52m 22s):
No, this is great. Please, please. You're always so gracious on your podcast that this, this is what people want. Yeah. This is certainly what I want to hear. So, yeah.

2 (1h 52m 30s):
So on the reputational side, you're right that at the time, especially, let's just call it 2013 to 2015, this was not a na a comfortable national conversation of any type.

1 (1h 52m 42s):
Yeah. I wouldn't have had this conversation back then. No. No way I'd lose, I I don't know that I would've lost my job. It just would've raised a lot of eyebrows. Yeah. Now that such studies are happening at Stanford.

2 (1h 52m 50s):
Yeah. The perception, yeah. The perception was that these are a professional third rail at the very least. Right. Also illegal. Therefore, if I talk about them, am I giving someone probable cause? Am I gonna get myself in some type of really tricky legal situation, et cetera? There are a lot of considerations, but I tested that, just like I was saying, I, I like to capture my assumptions on paper so I can stress test. and I was like, okay, I think that might be true. Most people I know think that is true, but is it true? How could we test to see if that is true or not? and I decided to crowdfund for a Hopkins pilot study looking at psilocybin for treatment-resistant depression.

2 (1h 53m 36s):
and I thought to myself, okay, we have, we have a couple of, a couple of things falling in our favor here. Number one, depression does not discriminate. So across socioeconomic classes, across gender, across race, this is a problem. Almost everyone knows someone who takes antidepressants, who is still depressed. Okay. Treatment-resistant depression, therefore is the indication, psilocybin is the intervention. Let me crowdfund and I did that throughout the time. Crowd Rise, which was co-founded by Edward Norton, who had become a friend and was the

1 (1h 54m 12s):
Actor, Edward Norton,

2 (1h 54m 13s):
The actor who's very smart, very, very, very smart. Also one of the best investors I've ever met, which a lot of people don't know. Very bright guy. And so crowdfunded and I also like to put my money where my mouth is. So I said, okay guys, I'm gonna seed this. Like I'm putting in X, the goal is to raise, I think it was 80,000, something like that for the following study. And then I was like, let's see, let's see what happens. And there was basically zero negative blowback. And not only was was there no discernible, negative blowback, a number of people, and this was deliberate, I wanted to see this. A number of people came out of the woodwork to support in a bigger way.

2 (1h 54m 55s):
and I was like, oh, okay, I see you a bunch, a handful of folks I knew. and I was like, oh, interesting. Okay, there are at least a half a dozen folks who are studying the same thing, who are paying attention to the same thing. And then I just got bolder. I was like, okay, if I tested that, let me push and then let's see what happens and I'll wait. And lo and behold, I realized that the perception did not match the reality. The reality was, if you're talking about indications that cause an incredible amount of Suffering for a very large number of people, even those who are anti-drug per se, just say no to drugs, want solutions.

2 (1h 55m 35s):
And the current treatments for many of these things do not work very well. And in the best of cases are often masking symptoms and not addressing root causes. I would say. So at that point, I just went whole hog and I said, okay, look, I like to think that I am exactly what you see is what you get. Right. The person you talk to off camera, the person you talk to on camera, same. And if I start feeling like I have too much to protect, I want to do something to counteract that. In other words, if, if, if I feel like I need to censor my true feelings and beliefs, maybe not share my hardships, perhaps not promote certain things, because I have a reputation to lose, that's a fragile position.

2 (1h 56m 20s):
I want to be as anti-fragile as possible. And so by talking about this, I viewed it as a way of inoculating myself against fear of reputation loss. Like, okay, lemme push this. Like I'll ride this horse. Other people might not, but I wanted to remove the stigma for funding purposes. Hopefully open up federal funding that's starting to happen now from different agencies and then to focus on access and reduction of cost and insurance reimbursement and so on. So I set a game plan, let's call it, maybe five years ago. and I've just been slowly, methodically executing on that since.

2 (1h 56m 59s):
And the reason I chose this to focus on, and I've funded other things, but I've really focused on this mental health therapeutics, which is not limited to Psychedelics. And we could talk about some other things that I find interesting, but Psychedelics are, like I said, what makes it attractive? Very uncrowded. You can do a lot with a small amount of money. Unlike saying cancer research can be very hard. Like, okay, you're deck a billionaire, great, maybe you can do something interesting. And I'm sure other people could, but If, you have 20,000, $50,000, it's gonna be hard to make a dent there. And Psychedelics, you can actually still make a difference and very high leverage in part because these compounds seem to challenge much of what we assume to be true about treating mental health.

2 (1h 57m 44s):
And so that's, that makes for an attractive bet. So that's where I've been, been going.

1 (1h 57m 50s):
Yeah. I'm so glad that you shared that with us and that you did that exploration and that you've been spearheading the funding efforts. You know, this podcast has a, a premium channel that's for raising funds for scientific studies. We are in the process now making our first four contributions. One of those includes work in Nolan Williams laboratory at Stanford doing combining Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation with studies of Ibogaine and five meo, D M t, maybe a few other things. But basically that he's free to do what he wants with the funds. We trust him to do great work. But that, again, was inspired by you Right.

1 (1h 58m 30s):
Podcast with a scientific slant. Certainly this podcast obviously has a scientific slant, but the idea of doing philanthropy for the sorts of work that really deserves funding and exploration. And by the way, in thinking about other hybrid things that would be fun to do, I mean, I would love to contribute and join those efforts that you, because the work to continue to raise funding for Psychedelic studies and all these great laboratories continues. Right? It continues, yeah. And you've rallied a, a collection of some pretty powerful people to contribute to this and I know you've joined Arms with Michael Pollan. Yeah. In many ways. Do you wanna talk about the fellowships Sure.

1 (1h 59m 11s):
That you guys put together? I find that really cool. You, you've got fellowships Yeah. In the works or maybe already happening at uc. Berkeley, is that right?

2 (1h 59m 18s):
At uc? Berkeley, yes. So the, what what I try to do, and for people who wanna check it out, it's, it's the name of the foundation, Issai Saisei Foundation. And let me explain that for a second. So it's S A I S E I. So sai Saisei Foundation dot org. I speak Japanese. I went there as an exchange student and speak, read and write it still to this day, pretty well. SI's say can mean a lot of things. It means rebirth in Japanese. And I've seen what can only be described or can certainly be described as rebirth in so many clinical outcomes that I thought it was appropriate to use. And what I've tried to do with the foundation is I think do what I'm pretty good at, which is trying to peek around corners and find something to prototype.

2 (2h 0m 3s):
Right? So just like the CGM and like, all right, how can I just getting a hold of a Dexcom back then when it was just for type one diabetics was, was hard. It was

1 (2h 0m 12s):
Happening that you have to actually go under the skin. So

2 (2h 0m 14s):
It's, it's like taking a barbecue prong and putting it under your ab abdominal skin. It was not comfortable.

1 (2h 0m 20s):
Can you describe your cortisol level and subjective terms when you're at home, you got this thing and you're about to implant it and you don't have any precedents. Not like this is, you know, like levels or one of these other CGMs that are out there, you know, as you stamp the thing in, you can look on Instagram and see someone else do it. There's nothing like that. Yes. So you're at home wondering if you're gonna skew your liver.

2 (2h 0m 41s):
Yeah, I, I'm, I'm at home doing it myself and I'm sweating like a stuck pig. I'm sitting there, I'm like, oh my God, I don't even know if I can hold her. Is

1 (2h 0m 48s):
Is your girlfriend there like to support you in case you, let's see you. I

2 (2h 0m 51s):
Think at the time she wasn't because she was squeamish and didn't wanna see it. And I'm, so I'm sitting there at my kitchen table. I remember this, God, I'm sweating just thinking about it. And no videos to watch and wasn't really supposed to have it in the first place. And the device for readout, by the way, no iPhone. Right, right. So it was like this janky pager looking thing that had a readout that made you think you were playing pong or something. I mean, it was very,

1 (2h 1m 20s):
The green, the green tin screen.

2 (2h 1m 22s):
Yeah, green tin screen

1 (2h 1m 23s):
With the dot font.

2 (2h 1m 24s):
It was so primitive. And put this thing under my skin would tape, I would cut a Ziploc bag and put it on top and, and masking tape it to my skin to take showers because otherwise it wouldn't work. And. it was, it was great. And I'll just say that I don't use a C cgo. It was great. You realize, you said it was great. I did, I did say it was great because gave, I'm

3 (2h 1m 48s):
Sweating And. it was, I was afraid and

2 (2h 1m 49s):
I was, but it gave me a lot of insight. Okay. And then once I had the insight over a course of a handful of weeks and I felt like I didn't really need it anymore. And that was also just a heavy tax to pay. Yeah. To have to wear that thing around. Look like you have a, you know, what is it called? A colostomy bag or something? Yeah, And. it was just like, it was big, it was bulky. So just like I did that, I wanted to do a proof of concept, right? The goal was can I use this for healthy normal applications? Will the insights be actionable? And they were, lo and behold, similarly with the foundation, since I'm dealing with smaller amounts of money, you know, I'm not in the billionaire club by any stretch of the imagination, and science can be expensive.

2 (2h 2m 34s):
I'm looking for small bets. Where can I pilot something that if successful will be emulated or can be scaled? And so in the, say the crowdfunding for, for the Hopkins treatment-resistant Depression pilot study, we ended up exceeding the goal. They were able to recruit more subjects. In the case of uc, Berkeley, Michael Pollan and I partnered on this, and my foundation funded it. The Ferris uc, Berkeley Journalism, Fellowship Psychedelic Journalism Fellowship is providing funding to up and coming journalists who want to focus on Psychedelics as their beat. Which to this date has not been financially feasible.

2 (2h 3m 16s):
You just don't have the space to do really long form investigators and investigative work. The hope being that these journalists can apply their skills and their dedication to Examining different facets of the Psychedelic ecosystem, therapeutic potential regulatory issues, et cetera, in a way that can shape and inform national and international discourse in a, in a very critical way. Because these things are not a panacea. There's a lot of claims that are made about these that are totally unbacked by any type of science, and there are a lot of charlatans.

2 (2h 3m 59s):
And so I want wanted to also invite really competent, really good journalists to the table who might want to watch for bad actors. I think that's really important. And so this Fellowship has been, been, has been awarding fellows with these grants and I think it's a relatively small amount of money. It's like $10,000 per something like that. But the outcomes have been amazing. We had a huge, I wanna say it was 7,000 word piece that was one of the main features in Rolling Stone Magazine. Huge piece in National Geographic focused on iboga and fair trade and some of the implications for local harvesting and or overharvesting.

2 (2h 4m 44s):
All the dynamics present in that, which I think has some incredible promise for particular forms of opioid use, opioid use disorder in particular. But that has been a huge success. So the hope is that other Journalism schools will say, that's a great idea and I will have de-risked it for some other philanthropist or foundation or government, say director at an agency to say, okay, well green like that. Right? Cause I've done it And, it's been received very well, And, it's had a real impact on how things are moving along. Another one would be, say at Harvard Poplar, this is at Harvard Law School. It was the first, is the first dedicated team focused on law policy and regulation related to Psychedelics from a legal perspective.

2 (2h 5m 31s):
Super

1 (2h 5m 31s):
Important,

2 (2h 5m 31s):
Super important, super, super important. Also, another pilot, let's just call it proof of concept that si Saisei Foundation funded was helping to develop curricula for, I think it was Yale, Johns Hopkins and nyu effectively a, an an accreditation or module that they could put into their existing psychiatry MDMA programs such that people could develop the skills necessary and the understanding necessary to administer Psychedelic assisted therapies if and when they become legal prescribable.

1 (2h 6m 11s):
Which it, if I understand correctly, it sounds like within the next 12 to 24 months, MDMA assisted psychotherapy for the treatment of trauma is likely to become legal in the hands of psychiatrists, at least it may be certain clinical psychologists as well in the us Is that right? The, the through the map, through the efforts of the maps

2 (2h 6m 33s):
Group? Yeah. Through, through the efforts of maps.org and Rick Doblin and many others. That is the tip of the spear. So I think anyone who's interested in Psychedelics should have a vested interest in supporting those efforts. Not because we know everything works. I wanna be clear, not because we know apriori, that all of these things do all the things. No. But if, if MDMA Fails, it's gonna be very hard to draft, it'll be impossible to draft on that with s that are more difficult to administer, like psilocybin, which would be next in line for alcohol use disorder, also major depressive disorder.

2 (2h 7m 13s):
So I I, I really feel that, just like everything I've talked about, whether it's networking, putting together for our body or trying to change national policy and say reclassification of these compounds, getting them out of schedule one to some extent, you, you wanna break it down into its constituent pieces. You wanna do an 80 20 analysis, figure out what the critical few are, and then put them in a logical sequence and execute the plan. One of the greatest weaknesses in the Psychedelic ecosystem is there are a lot of people who just wanna do all the things and save all the people and all the animals and all the places all at once.

2 (2h 7m 54s):
Yeah. And that just doesn't work very well. There are also some really good people who are executing, and we could talk about the for-profit side and so on, but I've been very, very, very pleased with the outcomes that si Saisei Foundation has been able to achieve with very limited money. I'm prouder of those outcomes than I am of the startup record and the startup record's pretty good. And it's the same lens. I'm using the same, the same filters and the same approach, which is kinda what I'm always looking for. I'm looking for stuff that'll translate across fields if possible. And then you mentioned one like TMS, I think TMS very interesting.

1 (2h 8m 32s):
Transcranial, Magnetic Stimulation. Yeah. Which at one point was more commonly used to inhibit specific brain areas. This is a non-invasive technique. I've had it done where is over my motor cortex, and you're tapping your finger and all of a sudden you can't tap your fingers. It's pretty eerie. But now it can be used to stimulate at particular frequencies and enhance neuroplasticity. Yeah. And, and in combination with Psychedelics is the, that's kinda the burning question. Now. Can you get a, a synergistic effect of TMS and, and Psychedelics, maybe not just during the, the psilocybin or iboga journey, but in the days and weeks after, when we know for sure a lot of plasticity is still occurring. Yeah. So keep the plasticity on board or accelerate it.

2 (2h 9m 13s):
Yeah. Yeah. So T TMS also is a monotherapy, very interesting to me for depression, anxiety, even substance use disorders. Super interesting. And there are many different protocols, all sorts of different technology. I would say low intensity or low power ultrasound also super interesting for various, various applications potentially to addiction. So I'm not to be clear, a card carrying evangelist for Psychedelics. I am a proponent of looking for high leverage uncrowded bets with limited downside and testing them out.

2 (2h 9m 56s):
And very optimistic about Psychedelics. If anyone listening has a family history of say, say schizophrenia borderline personality disorder, which we might, which this is being very simplistic, but categorize or described as more sort of chaotic conditions compared to hyper rigid conditions like an O C D or anorexia nervosa, chronic depression, et cetera. And then we can talk about why some of these Psychedelics, at least some of the classical Psychedelics, seem to have cross efficacy with multiple conditions. But Psychedelics seem very helpful for certain types of hyper rigidity.

2 (2h 10m 39s):
When you get into schizophrenia and borderline personality disorder, they can be really heavily contraindicated. Not to say that they cause those cons, those conditions, but they can precipitate the onset of those symptoms. And for that reason can be very destabilizing and dangerous for, for certain people. However, that's where something like metabolic psychiatry comes in and the use of ketosis and the ketogenic diet, which appears to be very effective in some patients for that grouping of say, more chaotic conditions, which is very exciting. So I'm interested in, in, in any tools that are off the beaten path that seem to raise interesting questions that have not been answered in a satisfying way yet in medicine and I think we're still largely in the dark ages with respect to psychiatry.

1 (2h 11m 34s):
Oh, I think the best psychiatrist would agree with you.

2 (2h 11m 38s):
Yeah. And, and the best psychiatrists and the best scientists and the best fill in the blank are acutely aware of the limitations of our current methods and the limitations of our current knowledge. So I think the mark of a good thinker, the mark of a good scientist, the mark of a good fill in the blank, anything is someone who says, I have no idea, or we have no idea a lot.

1 (2h 12m 2s):
And hopefully they also say, let's go figure it out. Let's figure out or try, try some things. and I, I, I really want to thank you for sharing that narrative, especially because it makes clear that you brought the same systematic process of using and asking excellent questions to arrive at solutions, to arrive at more questions, to fund areas of inquiry, and to do it all in this really Structured way, as you said, from policy all the way down to like how many grams or you know, x of, of some substance somebody might take. I mean, I think Matthew Johnson's laboratory at Hopkins, Roland Griffiths, Robin Ard Harris at U C S F, Nolan Williams, the maps group, Rick Dolin, yeah.

2 (2h 12m 47s):
Peter Hendrix at University of Alabama looking at cocaine, addiction, other things. Yeah,

1 (2h 12m 52s):
You Michael Pollen, you know, I'm leaving some names out here and I don't wanna take anything away from the classic as they're called explorers of Psychedelics and, and writers about Psychedelics. But we are in the moment of a renaissance now, and it's important that this have a lot of fuel. So we'll put a link to your philanthropy efforts. Great. And, and the Journalism fellowships as well, because I think there's gonna be a lot of interest there. and I'm huge supporter of what you're doing as, as you know, and I just think it's the way great science and clinical progress is made. So you Yeah, thanks Andrew. Yeah, it's, I, which brings me to another parallel topic. You know, it used to be that Meditation and Psychedelics were, you know, nested in the same territory.

1 (2h 13m 35s):
This would be in the late sixties, early seventies, the birth of places like Esalen, et cetera, or the consequence of the dual exploration of those things. Meditation sort of escaped from the Psychedelics umbrella and vice versa. Starting sometime in the, you know, mid two thousands when neuroimaging became a little bit more accessible. And you know, I think nowadays If you told anybody, okay, you know, meditation's good for you. It can help ratchet down your anxiety, give more self-awareness, you know, improve sleep and on and on. Maybe even give some insight into consciousness. No one's going to bulk. Yeah, there's just a lot of studies. There are thousands of studies. Yeah, my laboratory's done a few of them.

1 (2h 14m 15s):
There are other laboratories who have done far more. The book Altered Traits is the one that comes to mind in the group out Wisconsin was early to, early to the game on this. In any event, you talked about tm. I'm curious from a practical standpoint, do you still meditate daily? Do you do Meditation, Retreats? What sorts of meditative practices do you have? Because I realize this can be done walking, writing is its own form of Meditation. What sorts of formal practices do you still engage in now?

2 (2h 14m 46s):
Yeah, I do 10 to 20 minutes in the morning. So I am not currently doing the TM twice daily, 20 minutes. I think that would be better for me probably.

1 (2h 14m 55s):
Do you set a clock and you, or or

2 (2h 14m 57s):
Yeah, I'll set a clock, which would be more of the concentration practice of say a TM where you're repeating a mantra. Honestly, it could be any, in my opinion, some TM purists will ba at this, but it could be really any nonsense. Syllable could be a word, although I think something without any attached meaning is probably more beneficial for a host of reasons. So cons could be a concentration practice with 20 minutes of sitting. It might also be a guided Meditation and I have no vested interest in this app. But I think the Waking Up app by Sam Harris is fantastic. I have, as do I, I have used the introductory course, which is Sam leading you through my catnip, which is a, a logical progression of skill development from day 1, 2, 3, and, and forward.

2 (2h 15m 43s):
I have gone through that course multiple times when I'm getting back on the horse for Meditation as a bit of a reboot, once you develop, I think a certain degree of awareness and mindfulness, I do think there are other activities that probably allow you the parallel experience of doing one thing while experiencing some of the benefits of Meditation. And so for me, I wonder at times are the benefits of Meditation, the concentration practice itself, is it just sitting still with my eyes, clo closed, downregulating my system a little bit, activating my parasympathetic and not rushing or doing anything for 20 minutes?

2 (2h 16m 25s):
Is that it? Maybe, is it simply correcting my posture for 20 minutes? How do I wait these different inputs? And the the short answer is you probably don't need to know, but I have found that spending time in silence in nature with without anything to do, disallowing myself from doing things, no note taking, no reading, et cetera, and spending, I, I have spent a number of Extended fasts in nature, just like water only by myself, no talking, no reading, no writing. What's

1 (2h 17m 2s):
Extended

2 (2h 17m 2s):
Seven days generally. Wow.

1 (2h 17m 5s):
So you're camping in nature with just water.

2 (2h 17m 8s):
Yep. That's it by myself. And there are risks associated with that, right? You gotta be careful, not stupid about it. But that does a lot for me with some persistent benefits.

1 (2h 17m 21s):
Are there some favorite places that you've gone into nature? It doesn't have to be to fast. Like for instance, I'm a big fan of some of the national parks up in the Pacific Northwest because it's like being transported to a different planet. Yeah, Yosemite's obviously amazing, but any favorite spots where we yeah, won't go. People won't go looking for you there, don't worry. Yeah, I would say you live in Austin all the time, so that's

2 (2h 17m 43s):
Right. Yeah. Yeah. So I would say Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, spending time in mountains around rivers, lakes, I find very therapeutic and just gorgeous. I I, I do think we suffer from odd deficiency disorder, you know, a bit of a d d when we're trapped in the mundane and for too long with too much distraction, with too many to-dos, with too many relationships and there's no space for all there, there isn't the room necessary. Awe isn't, from my perspective, generally a quick hit that you get in the 30 seconds between using two apps, there's, there's more breathing room required for genuine transcendent experience of awe.

2 (2h 18m 29s):
So I try to on a yearly basis as one of my top priorities block out these weeks of time in nature. Yeah,

1 (2h 18m 37s):
Last year was the first year I did that. I went out to Colorado in August and just took daily hikes. I stayed in a hotel. I'm not as beasty as you do. We need water fast. I was eating every day, but it was spectacular. One thing I noticed, and I'd like to know your process on how do you handle going back into life? Great question. You know, because those days were and are amazing, right? You, you know, like detached and you know, maybe one text message here or there or in between hikes or something and then you just really clued in even the, the process of watching a show at night, like one felt so rich and like enough, oh yeah. So I'm, I wasn't as aesthetic as you were and like really cleaned all the clutter.

1 (2h 19m 19s):
But once you return to life, it's almost like getting, being a wash in demands and, and I can see from a place of more equanimity how one could make better choices. But how do you handle those

2 (2h 19m 29s):
Transitions? The reentry? Yeah. So before getting to the reentry, I think it might make sense for me to talk about what comes before. So let's say it's like pre during post. Part of the reason I do these one week or longer periods off the grid is because it forces me to put better systems in place. So there's the benefit that you derive from say that week and I have three weeks coming up right after this interview where I'm gonna be off the grid to set myself up for three weeks off the grid. I have a team, I have the podcast, I have a lot of things that are in motion at any given point in time.

2 (2h 20m 12s):
If, you disappear for say a two to four week period. Generally you cannot let the whole house catch on fire, then come back and put it out effectively, which means you need to put some policies and rules and so on in place in advance. And there's a carryover effect that has a host of benefits and makes things smoother for the reentry. So they're related, like the more you set up the pre, the easier the post is gonna be. And then you have this beautiful, expansive experience in nature, whatever it might be. Whether you're making it to suffer fest like I do or at a hotel at night. Either way these things can work. And nature in and of itself is super helpful. I, I do think that a lot of the time we like to imagine because we're driven, smart, accomplished people that our problems are very complex and at the end of the day it's like you just need some time in nature and a cold shower and some fucking macadamia nuts and you'll be fine.

2 (2h 21m 8s):
You don't need to solve like all the existential dilemmas of humankind actually, or fancy pharmaceuticals. So you have this experience over this week and what I will do then is set at least a, let's call it Integration Period of two to three days where I will slowly edge back in to my previous routine. I will not within 12 hours of getting back to so-called civilization have a day full of calls or meetings. I will not do that. It's too much of a shock to the system. and I think it robs you of a tail end of benefits, which would also be the case with say faster ketogenic diet or any number of interventions.

2 (2h 21m 52s):
You can squeeze out a long tail of benefits If, you make a handful of changes for instance after an Extended fast, what If you started with a sub caloric ketogenic diet for a few days. You get to extend some of the benefits as opposed to going straight back to say a diet that includes a lot of carbohydrates. Similarly, when you create more of a vacuum, more space for awe, insight, reflection, recovery, I think you're doing yourself a disservice. If, you jump from park into six gear. And so I plan for that and it's a function of scheduling. I also have a predictable weekly schedule.

2 (2h 22m 32s):
So I tend to schedule podcast recordings on Mondays and Fridays in preparation for an Extended trip. I will batch a lot of similar activities that we have, say a bunch of episodes in the bank that are pre-scheduled. Everything is figured out in advance and over time, the more you take these breaks, the better your systems become and the more liberated you are from the day-to-day, which means when you get back you also don't need to rush as much into hyperactivity and If you. Do you know that that is more from a compulsivity than from a necessity

1 (2h 23m 9s):
While you are on these nature Retreats, are you writing on a daily basis? Are you just thinking and allowing thoughts to enter and leave your system?

2 (2h 23m 18s):
Depends on the retreat. So sometimes I'm writing, but writing I think can underscore for me a desire to be compulsively productive and I think that is inversely correlated to my happiness or sense of wellbeing a lot of the time. So there are many areas in my life now. So If, you were to ask me like what has changed significantly since the time that you wrote four Hour Body? I would say that rather than looking for areas to optimize, I am looking where I can very deliberately de optimize certain areas to increase sense of wellbeing. Where can I de optimize?

2 (2h 23m 57s):
Where can I stop measuring? Where can I stop reading books? Which areas can I ignore completely? What types of information can I just excise from my life altogether for a period of time? Delete Twitter, stop reading about books in X related to say AI or whatever it might be. Like where can I de optimize selectively to sort of optimize the whole? Does that make sense?

1 (2h 24m 24s):
Makes good sense. Yeah.

2 (2h 24m 26s):
And before we started recording, I gave you a book, which is a short collection of poetry by halal lizza Geri, which is called gold. It's collection of Rumi Poetry. Reading Poetry is an activity almost by definition, which is is the antithesis of optimization. So I've tried to also integrate more of those activities into my life. And this relates to your question because there are times when I will force myself to sit on my goddamn hands and not write, not read, just do the thing that is so uncomfortable sometimes, which is just sitting there with yourself.

1 (2h 25m 4s):
You know, it can be incredibly uncomfortable and in part because of the fear that it could be com comfortable. Yeah. Right. Especially for proactive people with a yeah. Strong. Well, to use Paul con's, words, Generative, Drive, you know, you're gonna, that's, you know, the, which is a good thing I, I

2 (2h 25m 24s):
Believe. Yeah, it's a, it's a good thing And it, it can be a good thing. It can indicate really incredible adaptations. It can also sometimes I think, indicate maladaptations, right? And so I think it's, it's helpful to take a break from that Generative Drive or at least just put it in park position to see if that Generative Drive is, is perhaps indicative of you leaning towards something in a healthy, proactive way versus running from something in a long-term destructive way.

1 (2h 26m 5s):
Yeah. Well and I think Paul would say that part of the Generative Drive process is peace, you know, not as necessarily even as a still state, but as a, you know, being able to experience peace even in the transitions. And there's a lot more to say about that. And he would say it far better than I ever would. So I'll leave it at that. And

2 (2h 26m 24s):
Yeah, I mean, for people who have the option getting in nature, it doesn't have to be all day, every day on a water fast. I just take certain things to an extreme because that's who I am. But, sorry,

1 (2h 26m 34s):
When you say water fast, that means Fasting with water,

2 (2h 26m 37s):
Right? It

1 (2h 26m 38s):
Just Fasting. But yes, drinking water,

2 (2h 26m 40s):
It just means you're allowed to have water and nothing else

1 (2h 26m 42s):
For, for a long time. I thought it meant that you're not drinking water. Oh yeah,

2 (2h 26m 45s):
No, don't do that. Some

1 (2h 26m 46s):
People do that, right? They do these crazy food, water fasts as a way, I think they believe it clears senescent cells or something, but probably clears a lot more than just senescent cells. Yeah,

2 (2h 26m 57s):
I There might be something to it. Yeah, I mean, look, there are people who recycle by drinking their own urine. Not my jam, but I would say it's like three hours without shelter, three days without water, three weeks without food. General rule of thumb. So be careful with dehydration. You can go a long time without food. If you have, I don't care how ripped you're, you get 8% body fat, man, you got plenty of time. You can go a couple weeks, no problem.

1 (2h 27m 22s):
You got calories, stock

2 (2h 27m 23s):
Weigh 9,000 calories per pound for body fat. You got plenty, don't worry. So for people who have the option to be in nature and just exercise several hours a day to exhaustion, see how many of your problems seem to just go away? Let's try that.

1 (2h 27m 43s):
Yeah. Well my Sunday routine is to try and get outside and move as much as possible. Yeah. I don't always succeed, but I'm gonna try a longer retreat into nature. I think Olympic National Forest is, is calling me again it seems like once a year. I just want to get back up there. It's,

2 (2h 28m 2s):
It's calling. You should get back out there. It's

1 (2h 28m 4s):
Spectacular. I have a question about mentors. I'm a big believer in mentors, either mentors that know us and we know them or people that we assign as mentors without them realizing it, this sort of thing. Do you have mentors at this stage of life for particular areas of life? Are you, you mentoring yourself? Are you flying with a few voices in your head that serve you well? Who, who are your mentors?

2 (2h 28m 36s):
I definitely have people I consider mentors. It's, I think at this point, rarely one way in the sense that they tend to be friends I spend time with, they get something from it, I get something from it. Not in a transactional way, but they find it fun or beneficial or amusing in some way, a redeeming to spend time with me. That's the hope.

1 (2h 29m 1s):
But how is that different from like traditional friendship, you know, just sort of standard friendship? Are you foc are you spending time with some orientation toward like their embodying areas of life that you would like to emulate? Totally.

2 (2h 29m 16s):
I mean, I spend, I spend time around people. I hope to be more like in some way, because guess what you're going to average into, say the, the just the, the sum holistic whole of the five or six people you spend the most time with. So you should choose that very carefully. That includes virtual parasocial relationships. Like, okay, if you're listening to fill in the blank person for four hours a week, five hours a week, two hours a week, whoever that group is comprised of is going to influence who you become. And for me then I think carefully about my friendships and they could be older, like Kevin Kelly has become a good friend who has a wealth of life experience that I don't have.

2 (2h 30m 6s):
And so I might just call him and say, Kevin, I have a question for you. But I do that with my younger friends too. And they could be younger than I am and I might still view them as a mentor and X, Y or z I think mentor has a heavy weight to it. It has a connotation of maybe never ending time consuming obligation. So I, I would never, for instance, and I know a lot of people try this, ask someone to be my mentor. It's like, would you like to be my free life coach forever? You know, it's like, that's kind of how it sounds to the recipient.

1 (2h 30m 37s):
Yeah, it sounds it, it sounds very formal. Yeah, it sounds

2 (2h 30m 40s):
Very formal. Yeah. And so for me, I would say there have certainly been mentors. I've had wrestling coaches, I've had teachers, I've had resident advisors who are reverence, who had a huge impact on my life and followed up with me and paid attention to me and cared for me in more of a one directional sense, right? I, I view myself as the beneficiary, of course they, they certainly got something out of it if they had that job. I mean they probably found it to be very gratifying in its own way. And teachers like professor Ed Sha at Princeton, I feel in incredibly indebted to these days.

2 (2h 31m 21s):
And for a long time I've believed that you can learn something powerful from almost anyone, probably anyone you interact with. Could be an Uber driver, could be someone taking garbage out of a restaurant. If. you really take the time to dig. You can find something and before you can, I think as an adult, effectively think about who you would like to learn from. If I put it that way, it's helpful to have a baseline of self-awareness that you know what you might want to work on to either amplify strengths, develop skills, address weaknesses.

2 (2h 32m 3s):
And so for instance, one of my close friends, Matt Mullenweg is younger than I am. He's the, he's the founder of Automatic, which runs wordpress.com. He was the lead developer of WordPress, although it was an open source project of course with many, many contributors. He was one of the lead developers now powers something like 32% of the internet. And he exemplifies a cool and calm temperament, even in the most chaotic period. It's imaginable during the most chaotic events imaginable. And when I find myself getting dysregulated use, use a fancy term, losing my shit or getting carried away by emotion, getting righteously angry or whatever it might be, and I recognize at some point that it's really not serving me, that I am being owned by the emotion, right?

2 (2h 32m 55s):
Like I'm the dog on the leash, not the other way around. Then I think of Matt, I'm like, what would Matt do? What advice would Matt give me right now? How would Matt act in these circumstances? and I do that with, with with many friends. I also think a lot about, and this is borrowing from someone named Kathy Sierra from a long time ago, focusing more on just in time information as opposed to just in case information. So just in case information is like, I'm gonna read these 20 books cuz in two years I might be interested in X, Y, and Z. That I think is often a waste of time because if it ever becomes relevant, you're just gonna have to reread those books.

2 (2h 33m 38s):
People do the same thing with humans. They're like, I wanna meet so and so and have them as my mentor because maybe five years from now I'll do X, Y, and Z and then they'll be useful for A, B, C. That's too speculative and I think it ends up in a lot of wasted energy. So the podcast for me, writing the books and doing the interviews even prior to the podcast, becoming involved with startups, delving into the world of science and scientists all helps me to develop a confidence that almost any question I could ask, I can find some semblance of an answer for by just reaching out to a few people and saying, who do you know who might be able to answer this?

2 (2h 34m 25s):
And that's very reassuring. And it, it relieves some of the anxiety or pressure that people might feel to assemble some personal board of directors of like X-men and women who can yeah, help them with everything and, and then there are people I hire to be accountable to, right? So I might work with coaches, therapists and so on who I would view as mentors. They just happened to get getting paid for it, right?

1 (2h 34m 52s):
Yeah. The reason I asked the question is because we were talking about the meditative process going into nature and even with Psychedelics there's, you know, it can be viewed a lot of different ways, but I think of them largely as going inward to explore. I mean, you're out in nature and learning from nature, there's such a core truth to nature. I know that sounds a little bit, you know, wishy washy, but it's, it's true. Like If you, it's there, it's concrete, it's really something. It was there long before any of us and it'll be there a lot longer than any of us we'll ever be. We hope, certainly if it goes, we go. So, but the process of learning from others and paying attention to others is, is really an outward looking thing.

1 (2h 35m 38s):
I mean we have to bring that in, but I was just curious how you balance those and as a way to really understand not just your time Allocation, right? I think we could talk about that. You know, what's, how's your morning Structured, et cetera, which I think there's great value in in, in knowing, but more what, what's your mind Allocation? Yeah. Right. I think about this, you know, like where's my brain? Is it, am I focused on what's going on in here? And you know, is that, is there a need to excavate there? Sure. You know, but how much time am I out of my head and bringing things in from the outside world and back and forth. So do you have some sense of across the year, across the day, how you mind allocate? I don't know if that's the best phrase, but I can't think of any better one If, you can think of a better one.

1 (2h 36m 22s):
Please, please table it cuz I, I'm happy to to use

2 (2h 36m 25s):
That one. Yeah. How do I think about Mind Allocation or Attention Allocation? I try to, and most frequently think of my mind share across a year and across week, a weekly timeframe. and I find that to be manageable in the sense that on a yearly basis, on New Year's Eve or roughly around New Year's, every year I'll do a past year review, p y r past year review where I'll go back and I'll look at my entire last year a piece of paper in front of me, line down the center plus negative and I will go through every week in my calendar for the previous year.

2 (2h 37m 21s):
and I'll write down the people, places, activities, commitments, et cetera, that produced peak positive emotional experiences. So, right, we're doing an 80 20 analysis here, like what are the big rocks that really move the needle in a meaningful way? And conversely, who are the people, what are the things, what are the places that just made me go ugh, and were draining, produced peak negative experiences. Why the hell did I commit to this type experiences? And that presents me with a do more of, do less of list. Then I look forward to the next year. and I did this, I suppose just a handful of months ago around New Year's with the positive.

2 (2h 38m 6s):
I'm like, okay, here's my list of do more of, it's not real until it's in the calendar. Let's get these things in the calendar and then I'll start talking to people, booking things, having people help with organizing if that is required and getting things blocked out. So I have already this year and we're in the reasonable beginning stages of the year. I have things blocked out until November of this year and those provide the breaks in the action, not just the breaks in the action, but the fun stuff. Because by the way guys, I thought for a long time like, yeah, you take care of A, B and C and the good stuff just takes care of itself. I have, I do not any longer believe that to be true unless you schedule these things that you claim are important, they're gonna get crowded out by bullshit and maybe not bullshit, but just less important things.

2 (2h 38m 59s):
They're urgent will crush the important. So I get these things on the calendar and then I back up and I look at optimal Weekly mind Allocation, right? Attentional Allocation. And there's a, there's, there's an incredible cost to cognitive switching if you're just task switching all day. So I will try my best to format a weekly rhythm, a weekly sequence that allows me to focus on certain types of tasks. So Monday is very frequently admin of some type just bits and ends slots and jetson, all the miscellaneous pieces that are part of life.

2 (2h 39m 43s):
You gotta deal with them. Yeah. That tends to be Monday whenever possible. And especially if I'm focused on physical activity, let's just say in a place like Colorado, I will try to schedule most of that for after lunch to ensure that I get in a lot of exercise and movement in the first portion of the day. Not everybody has that ability, but I will say more of you have that capacity than you might think because most of what we all do is just not important. Yeah.

1 (2h 40m 15s):
Time on Social Media first thing in the morning is probably the most poisonous activity that I could take part in. I, I don't wanna, you know, point fingers at anyone else, but Oh yeah. I think if people ask, you know, what, what is the, you know, amount of time it takes to get in a really good workout, it's gonna be about an hour. Yeah. You know, but a lot can be done in 45 if, or even 30 minutes when you think about how quickly that time goes by on Social Media.

2 (2h 40m 40s):
Yeah. And that's like, I'm sure I'm not the only one that is part of the reason I deleted a lot of these apps from my phone. It's like I would be, I'd go into the bathroom to take a, you know, quick bit of business and then 45 minutes later I'm like, how have I been looking at Instagram for 45 minutes?

1 (2h 40m 56s):
Yeah. Lines in for restrooms have gotten very long in the last 10, 10 years. Has anyone noticed that the wait for the restrooms has gotten very long?

2 (2h 41m 4s):
Yeah. So yeah, you have time for the important stuff. Yeah. It's like, and and just look at some of the extreme over cheerers out there. They have the same amount of time that you do. And

1 (2h 41m 12s):
Have you, I was gonna ask this later, but I'll just, we'll just quickly interject this now have I saw, perhaps it was on Twitter or maybe I overheard this, that you're back on Instagram. It's, I mean you, you've always had an account. Yeah. That posts. But are you back in there? Are you out of there?

2 (2h 41m 30s):
I mean, look, my, the dirty little secret, I'm single again. And that's a great way to connect with, with eligible ladies who might be of interest. Got

1 (2h 41m 37s):
It. Is Instagram, so you're on, so you're on Instagram.

2 (2h 41m 40s):
I'm willing to pay the tax of dealing with the brain damage of using Instagram as a result.

1 (2h 41m 47s):
Hey look, finding a great life partner is, is exactly, exactly. Is great.

2 (2h 41m 51s):
Exactly. So that's, that is the reason for that. But otherwise it would not be on my phone. It's

1 (2h 41m 59s):
Too Well it wouldn't even be on your phone.

2 (2h 42m 0s):
Absolutely not. It's too well designed. These companies are very smart, they have very good data scientists, they're very good UI specialists. If anyone out there thinks that they can look, maybe, maybe Jocko can can discipline his way through it. I'm sure he can. Cuz he's, he is Jocko. But in my case, and in the case of most people, like you're bringing a knife to a gunfight If, you think you can use your self-control to keep your use of Instagram to say 10 minutes at a clip. Good luck. Yeah. And even If, you can, people say, ah, but I do that anyway. I'm like, all right. How much time do you spend sending memes and links from Instagram or fill in the blank platform to your friends and group chat? How much time does that consume?

1 (2h 42m 41s):
I spend a fair amount of time on Instagram and Twitter posting things related to the podcast, but I don't have someone to do that for me. and I I actually enjoy doing it. And it challenges me in certain ways, but I completely agree with everything you're saying. I also wanna note that you didn't say that you're on Twitter possibly to meet somebody, which is more a statement about Twitter. Yeah,

2 (2h 43m 1s):
Yeah. It's not the, it's not the, not the friendliest neighborhood I've found. No, and I would say Twitter has its use cases. I, I find it useful in some respects. It has become much less useful and much less practical in the last year with a lot of the product changes. But it has its place. It's not on my phone, it was on my phone for a very brief period of time. I do not want, I find that my ability to be still and calm is eroded if I am too easily able to escape. Boredom If, you cease to have the ability to be bored for five to 10 minutes.

2 (2h 43m 43s):
I think that makes you very fragile. It makes you very easy to manipulate also. And there are a lot of forces at play online that want to manipulate or shape your behavior in different ways. So I feel like it is imperative for me to cultivate the ability to just sit still and not consume the five minutes in line waiting to get into a restaurant by hopping on Twitter or Instagram. So that's part of the reason they're not on my phone. Could you tell us about Cockpunch? Yeah. I can tell you about Cockpunch. So Cockpunch is a creative project intended once again to make me less precious about protecting whatever brand I think I might have.

2 (2h 44m 34s):
And this is an investment in my long-term mental health also and I think in my career flexibility, my willingness to Experiment Cockpunch could be a long story. But the gist of it is I wanted to Experiment with fiction writing. I've been saying this for years and I've never done it. That's the backdrop. On top of that, I have wanted to get back into illustration and work in the visual arts, which I did for a long time when I was younger. and I've not done that consistently. Why not? Because I haven't had accountability. I haven't had deadlines, it hasn't been in the calendar. This should sound somewhat familiar by now.

2 (2h 45m 13s):
And at the same time I was becoming very interested in web three and what was happening in the world of NFTs. This is probably 2020. and I know they have, they have developed a fairly negative connotation for a lot of good reasons. But I started to think about fundraising for early stage science. And if I could do, if I could conduct an Experiment as a proof of concept with different novel approaches to fundraising. So rather than just calling the rich friends who might sort of bend to the pressure or be willing to fund, I wanted to look at, say crowdfunding back in the day.

2 (2h 45m 55s):
Then I wanted to look at different options for perhaps art auctions. and I was gonna do this with, with contemporary art. This is many years ago bef and in the process of wanting to fund the, the Hopkins Center focused on Psychedelic and consciousness research, which, which the was the first of its kind in the United States. And the technology gave me the opportunity to learn about a new, let's just call it set of technologies. So to develop skills and knowledge. It would give me the opportunity to reconnect and deepen friendships with a number of my very, very smart friends who were playing in that area. Also, test fundraising, also get back into fiction and art and all that combined into this thing that I ended up calling Cockpunch because it made me laugh.

2 (2h 46m 43s):
And you know what, man? If, you take your work too seriously. You're gonna burn out before you get the really serious work done. and I think it was Bertin Russell who said, it's a sure sign of an impending nervous breakdown If. you start taking your work too seriously or believing your work to be very, very serious. And for that reason, I wanted to give it an absurd name that would also have some word of mouth benefit and that, to see what would happen, honestly. Just see what would happen. Cause I was like, all right, look what is honestly the worst thing that happens. Like people write a bunch of pieces where they're like shaking their fist at the sky.

2 (2h 47m 24s):
How dare Tim Ferriss Cockpunch create a project called

1 (2h 47m 28s):
Cockpunch? You could turn it around on them and just say that what they were doing is a Cockpunch No. Well, exactly. Attempting, attempting. Well

2 (2h 47m 34s):
That, that, well that was kind of the thing that was kind of part of the thinking. That it would just be entertaining to watch people seriously trying to critique something called Cockpunch. And the upshot of that is it raised almost 2 million sold out in something like 30 minutes or 40 minutes for the foundation. All that money went to Saisei Foundation. All of that money has already been distributed in the form of grants. Wonderful. And along the way, I got to work with artists, with programmers, learn new technologies, reconnect with old friends. And now we're back in touch. And it's, it's extremely fun to be back in touch with these folks.

2 (2h 48m 15s):
And I've written the equivalent of a short book in fiction in the form of short stories that are this fantasy, world building exercise for me. And I'm having a blast. So I am exercising new creative muscles that has led me back into the worlds of comic books, which I haven't created yet. Led me back into the worlds of gaming. Led me back into my fascination with tabletop gaming. Cause I played d and d forever when I was a kid. That was my refuge as a runt who got the crap kicked outta him left and right. and I am having just a blast. And the the takeaway, I think on some level is that you should do things, should, is, should, is a, is a, is a loaded term.

2 (2h 49m 2s):
It's helpful for me to consider doing things that give me energy. Right? Because if we say, all right, right, time management is fine, but time doesn't really have any practical value unless you have attention. Right? So then there's tensional management, but that attention is limited also physically and sort of metaphorically by energy, right? So you have like substrates, diets, neurotransmitters, and so on. If, you do not have the, the basic batteries required. The rest of the things that are higher up on that pyramid can't really be executed properly. So for me it's like, okay, let's say Cockpunch doesn't do anything.

2 (2h 49m 42s):
It's total failure, right? Coming back to like, well,

1 (2h 49m 44s):
R rate raised 2 million for science. It, it did, and that science could be breakthrough science. So it could, it could. So Cockpunch, sorry, yelled. I'm sorry. So Cockpunch is at least, thus far a success.

2 (2h 49m 56s):
It is. But coming back to Seth Godin's question, I asked myself, would I do this even if it turns out to be a complete failure financially? and I was like, yes. Because I think the relationships and the skills, even if this quote unquote Fails from the outside looking in, those will transcend this project and be life-affirming and helpful and fun in other areas. And that's proven to be true, even though the project is ongoing and I have more energy now because of this ridiculous project. I'm very proud of the fiction, actually, this ridiculous project called Cockpunch. People can find the legend of Cockpunch on any fine provider of podcasts and hired voice actors.

2 (2h 50m 39s):
Did the scripting, the production, it hit number one fiction worldwide on Apple Podcast for a while. The whole thing's hilarious.

1 (2h 50m 46s):
And, and If, you could, can you explain a little bit about the characters in Cockpunch?

2 (2h 50m 51s):
Yeah, I can.

1 (2h 50m 51s):
Who's, who's punching, who's cock Yeah, yeah. Or which cocks are punching Yeah. Which

2 (2h 50m 56s):
Cocks are punching. Yeah. Which, how does this work? So here we go. All right. So co, the legend of Cockpunch takes place in this realm called Varta. And Varta is being described through the narrator who we know as the seventh scribe. We don't know much about the seventh scribe, but the seventh scribe makes an appearance in episode one as the reliable, but possibly sometimes unreliable narrator of this space. And there is a, there's a mind bending time component where there's something called restarts, something like the edge of tomorrow. If people have ever seen this movie where time restarts, maybe like Groundhog Day, time restarts. And it's unclear as of yet in the story why that is the case.

2 (2h 51m 38s):
But people basically snap into being, they know who they are and what they do, but they have no real memories to speak of. So the world is constantly being reconstructed and pieced together by these scribes, the seventh of which is the narrator. So you can, you, you might read into this that I'm a fan of Fantasy Tolkien, you name it. Ursula, Ursula, Kate, the Wizard of ur, et cetera. Then there are eight primary houses. These are the greater houses, some might call them clans. And they have different characteristics. Just prior to this seventh scribe beginning his piecing together, which turns into this story in the podcast, there was a warring states period this much he's been able to establish.

2 (2h 52m 24s):
And the peacekeeping mechanism that was devised is something called the Great Games. And the Great Games is a combat competition. And the eight greater houses send their best fighters who've been vetted through preliminary competitions to the Great Games, which is in the free trade zone, which is this one place where all of the races mingle and trade and so on. And all these characters happen to be anthropomorphized roosters. So they have generally each one gauntlet of some type, and clearly they punch each other with this gauntlet.

2 (2h 53m 4s):
And there are many other types of weapons. So the colloquial nickname for this Olympics of combat is Cockpunch. And that is the, that is the etymology. So the scholars say of Cockpunch, the legend of Cockpunch, and there's a lot more to it. And there are many wrinkles, a lot of Easter eggs in, in this entire story. The idea came to me, And, it started off as a bit of a farce, right? It was just gonna be something funny, see if it works. Maybe it raises some money. Very light lift. But once I got into the fiction, I started digging it super seriously. So it's become very, very elaborate. It's become really, really elaborate and I'm loving it.

2 (2h 53m 44s):
It's great. So who knows where it'll go. I have no idea. That's part of the reason why I called it an emergent long fiction project. Yeah. I didn't call it an N F T project. I was like, this is an emergent long fiction project where I'm taking inputs from the audience. I'm, I'm watching very closely what people understand or don't understand or find interesting. I'm looking at, for instance, what is generated when I host an an AI assisted art competition, which I did with the fans. And a lot of these bits and pieces get integrated in some fashion into this thing. That chapter by chapter is coalescing. So that's Cockpunch

1 (2h 54m 20s):
Amazing.

2 (2h 54m 21s):
And I had to buy Cockpunch dot com and the at Cockpunch Twitter,

1 (2h 54m 28s):
You had to buy it from somebody.

2 (2h 54m 29s):
Oh yeah. Oh yeah, yeah. Oh yeah. The whole

1 (2h 54m 30s):
Process, I don't want to ask what it was being used for prior to your purchasing.

2 (2h 54m 34s):
It was not being used for fantasy world building, I'll put it that way. Got

1 (2h 54m 38s):
It. Amazing. And it for so many reasons. I have so much to say about it. First of all, your excitement about it is tangible. Yeah. The energy you have around it is infectious. And while I don't want to go into the total depth and contour of what Paul Conti has been telling me over the last week of preparing this mental health series about what's really great in life that we all should cultivate, it has a lot to do with this Generative Drive, which has a lot to do with positive energy. Not just positive thinking, but positive energy. But this, this triad of peace, contentment, and delight. And as you were explaining it, it's clear that it brings you great peace, contentment, and delight as action terms.

1 (2h 55m 23s):
Not like sit there and just hover in the basking in it. It's just so clear that this was a great idea. and I love that you started it as a way to kind of, I don't know, like n n knock the fear outta yourself a little bit by knocking a little fear into the whole thing. Yeah, yeah. Like, like what would happen, If, you let your mind go and and allowed yourself Yeah. To explore this. Yeah. And,

2 (2h 55m 47s):
And what permission would it buy you if it's not a total disaster? This is true for the four Hour Body too. I'm like, what if this partially works? It's not even a home run, but let's say I get on base, what permission does this then buy me? What other impossibles in quotation marks am I willing to challenge? and I was able to make the hop from one category in the bookstore to a completely different category. And then the sky's limit. I was like, I can do anything. I can do whatever I want. I've given myself permission and the market has given me permission. But the most important first step is you giving yourself permission and with say, Cockpunch, as ludicrous as it is, now that I've done that, my career hasn't ended, hasn't had any negative impact on my career whatsoever.

2 (2h 56m 31s):
I'm like, okay, that's actually kind of surprising.

1 (2h 56m 35s):
Oh, to the contrary, it seems like it gives you energy, it gives it raised money for science. Is it still raising money's?

2 (2h 56m 41s):
It's not. There

1 (2h 56m 42s):
Is, there's still an opportunity for people to No,

2 (2h 56m 44s):
It's contribute, it's, it's sold out. If people wanna contribute to say the early stage science, and let's just say specifically Psychedelics, I would say it's very, very hard to get a very solid understanding of the field and the shifting sands and the projects and so on. It's, it's very rapidly changing. So I would say just provide money to a foundation that's already doing good work. It could be Rivers Sticks Foundation, it could be Beckley Foundation. My foundation, sys Saisei. Foundation, I think does pretty good

1 (2h 57m 19s):
Work. And sys A is not just the jour, the Journalism fellowships, they're also the, it's funding for Psychedelics. Oh, yeah.

2 (2h 57m 25s):
There's, there's tons of stuff. There's a project page on css Saisei Foundation dot org. You can see the projects. There're probably 15 to 20 of them. And they can see the basic science all the way from really basic science looking at possible mechanisms of action. For something like D I P T, which is a very strange compound that D I P T, yeah. Most people aren't gonna know it. That that produces profound auditory distortions and hallucinations in humans. Very hard to animal model. And from that all the way up to really sophisticated imaging studies from that to say at least a year or two ago, supporting phase three Trials for MDMA assisted psychotherapy, then the Journalism, then the this, then the that.

2 (2h 58m 11s):
But a lot of, a lot of different scientific studies that are, that are being supported. So that's, that's very exciting to me. And, but the, the Cockpunch side of things is all done, money's been distributed. And maybe I'll do more of this kind of thing, but I'm, I might take a different approach. I, I, I feel like, okay, I learned what I feel I wanted to learn from that. And maybe I'll try something new next time. Yeah.

1 (2h 58m 38s):
One thing's clear. Nobody tells you what to do except you. And, but that's vetted through many important filters. Like yeah, Structured filters and very thoughtful filters are the words that come to mind when I think about Yeah, your process as you're sharing. and

2 (2h 58m 54s):
I have one more thing, which is one of the sources of joy, of Cockpunch is that it is not over-planned. I set some initial conditions and now it's emergent. And as someone who has hyper unanalyzed and meticulously planned most of my life for decades, I think it's helpful to have an improv component. So if If, you are a hyper planner. If you're a hyper measurer If, you like that degree of control, maybe you should try something that's a little less controlled. Take an improv class, try fiction writing.

2 (2h 59m 35s):
Do something that isn't totally scripted where you don't know the outcome. I think it's really good medicine for people, just like If, you spend all your time in a yoga class. Maybe you should spend one day a week lifting weights, see what that's like. And If, you spend all your time in the gym and you can barely touch your toes. Maybe you should do some more downward dog, try some yoga. Similar, I think the spectrum of hyper planned to completely free flowing and improv provides ample opportunity to enrich themselves and maybe address some weaknesses at the same time. So for me, Cockpunch has been incredibly therapeutic. Probably the first time that anyone's ever uttered that sentence.

2 (3h 0m 16s):
But yes, probably. Yeah.

1 (3h 0m 18s):
But that's part of what makes it so cool.

2 (3h 0m 20s):
Yeah, totally.

1 (3h 0m 21s):
I love it. I'm wondering if you'd be willing to share with us a little bit about your mindset, maybe even your Motivation, but certainly your mindset around sharing some of the hard personal tribulations that you've shared in preparation for this discussion. Today I went back to some of those posts that you did and the podcasts that you did around this. And I'd listened to them at the time, and, you know, they deal with quite serious violations of childhood and of self. And they're hard. I mean, they, they're, they're hard to listen to.

1 (3h 1m 1s):
and I can only imagine, they must be even far, far harder to, to experience. and I was curious what led to your willingness to do that. And yeah, I mean, I have my own ideas about what might have motivated it, but I'd like to hear it from you.

2 (3h 1m 21s):
Sure. Happy to talk about it. and I think there are two particular examples that come to mind. So one is my near Suicide in college. And if people search some practical thoughts on Suicide and my name, it'll pop right up. I mean, If, you just search my name and Suicide, it'll probably pop right up, pretty well indexed at this point, which is very deliberate. People can look at the URL structure for a little wink and hat tip. It'll tell you something about optimizing for Google If. you look at it, I'll just tell you the URL is spells out how to commit Suicide.

2 (3h 2m 2s):
But clearly I'm not teaching people how to commit Suicide, but I wanted that to be a honeypot for some of that traffic because it's a lot easier now to find that type of practical implementation advice. And it's a bit harder to find, I think, compelling intervention. So first of all, if you're feeling Suicide, obviously call Suicide hotline, please. Right? That's sometimes the last thing that people want to hear when they are in a place of suicidal ideation. And the reason I ended up writing a long post about this, which was terrifying to write because I had never told my parents, I had never told my closest friends this was a secret.

2 (3h 2m 44s):
This was a dark, dark secret. and I wrote about it because I went to an event in San Francisco. I was interviewed on stage by Jason Calcan, who's a friend and a very good interviewer at an event. And after I got off stage, a bunch of people approached me and I was saying hi and taking photos and signing things and so on. And there was one young man there, very well-dressed, which isn't really relevant. I just, it was striking cuz in San Francisco sometimes people are very underdressed. And he was, he had dressed up for it, like he'd taken it seriously.

2 (3h 3m 25s):
And he was in a suit and tie. And he asked me if I could sign a book for his brother. and I said, sure, no problem. and I asked him, what would you like me to write to your brother? And he kind of blanked. He didn't kind of blank, he totally blanked. But the look behind his eyes was I unusual. It wasn't just, I don't know what to say blank. There was something else behind it. and I could tell that he felt under pressure. and I said, no problem, take your time. I'll tell you what, I'll just chat with a couple of other people and I, I'll sign the book. No problem. I'm not going anywhere. And chatted with the other folks. And then he asked if he could just walk me to the elevator and then I could sign the book.

2 (3h 4m 8s):
I was like, sure. And he explained to me as I walked to the elevator how his brother had been a huge fan of mine and that I'd really kept his brother afloat for a long time. And eventually his brother killed himself. And that they'd kept his room exactly how it was. And he wanted me to sign the book so that he could put the book in his brother's room. And he asked me if I'd ever considered talking about mental health and mental health challenges publicly, because he thought it would really help a lot of people.

2 (3h 4m 50s):
And that just, I mean, I'm like feeling myself tear up right now. I mean, it's, it, it was so crushing to hear this story. And totally unbeknownst to him, I had a lot of history with depressive episodes. And when I say near Suicide, I had it on the calendar. I had a plan. I was gonna kill myself. I knew exactly how I was gonna do it. I knew where I was gonna do it. I knew all of the variables that I needed to account for to get it done. And the only reason that didn't happen for people who don't have the contacts, which most people want, is I had tried to reserve a book at Firestone Library. This is at Princeton, which had something to do with Suicide.

2 (3h 5m 32s):
It was like assisted Suicide, like the, the Clinician's Guide to Euthanasia, something like that. And, it wasn't in. and I had forgotten to change my address at the registrar's office. I was taking a year away from school. And that was to focus on finishing my thesis. It was to try a few jobs, but I'd ended up in a very bad place and was feeling very isolated. And my friends were graduating a year ahead of me. and I was stuck on this thesis. And there's a lot of backstory that I won't bore people with, but it got to the point where I decided not that objectively, objectively my life is bad. I think this is where people who haven't experienced depression get a little confused, or it's hard for them to identify when they give advice to a depressed person.

2 (3h 6m 18s):
Because you might say to a depressed person, like, but look, your life is so great. Like there's this, there's that, there's this. And for a lot of depressed people to say, yeah, I know. I look at that and I can't fix my state because I am broken. And if this is how I'm gonna have to live forever with being this broken and dysfunctional, and to have this internal hell that I live day by day, I just want to escape. It's like someone jumping out of a burning building. It's like they don't wanna kill themselves, but they're jumping out of a burning building. And so I had it on the calendar, and thank God this was back when they would still send you a physical reminder in the mail, a little postcard that says, your book is in.

2 (3h 7m 2s):
And that card went to my parents' house and my mom saw it and panicked and called me. And I lied. I said it was for a friend who went to Rutgers who was doing a project on A, B, and C. But it's, it was just enough to kind of snap me out of the trance and realize that killing yourself is like putting on a Suicide vest with explosives and walking into a room of all the people you care the most about and and blowing yourself up. So that's snapped me out of it. But no one knew this. This guy certainly didn't know that. And that is when I went home and thought about it and just decided, okay, there's a chance if I write this, it's not certain, but there's a chance that this might help someone.

2 (3h 7m 47s):
It might prevent someone from doing what I was almost about to do. And so I spent months getting this post written and put it out, and I and I know for a fact it has saved minimum dozens of lives. And there are other things, including a very extensive list of resources. And so that gave me, I suppose, not a toe in the water, but sort of jumping feet first into the deep end, an experience of being that vulnerable. And this was a long time ago. I mean, this is, I wanna say at least eight to 10 years ago when I put that post out.

2 (3h 8m 29s):
And then I wanna say it was just before Covid lockdown, I was in Costa Rica visiting a friend, and I was with my girlfriend at the time. And she knew a secret of mine. And she was one of maybe two or three people who knew that I'd been sexually abused when I was a kid by a babysitter's son from two to four, roughly. And routinely all the time kind of thing. And yeah, like what you're envisioning is, is, is, is, is what happens. So it was not good.

2 (3h 9m 10s):
And that had been compartmentalized and locked away for my whole life. and I was like, that's in the past, we're focused on moving forward and nothing to be fixed, nothing to fix. And that was my, my perspective on things it turned out wasn't quite that simple. Right? And so I had done a lot of work, a lot of therapy, used Psychedelic, cys therapies as well, which once again, are not all upside potential. There are some significant risks. But I had come a long way and my plan had always been to wait until my parents passed.

2 (3h 9m 53s):
Cause I didn't want them to blame themselves for this and then to write a book. And there was something though at the time when I was having dinner with my girlfriend that was dissatisfying about that plan. It, there's something about it that bothered me. And I couldn't quite put a finger on it. and I was talking to her about it and she said, that's gonna take a long time. She's like, have you ever thought about how many people are going to pass away or die or suffer between now and when you publish that book? and I thought about it, And, it was at that dinner that I decided to at least record a podcast covering this terrain.

2 (3h 10m 40s):
I was not at all convinced that I wanted to publish it. I, I, I was terrified of publishing it also because it meant opening myself up to a lot of conversations or maybe just hurtful commentary online. Who knows? Like people are, there are a lot of idiots out there and a lot of otherwise fine people who are idiots on the internet. So I was very hesitant, ultimately decided I I didn't want to do it as a one man show. I didn't want to make it a monologue. So I asked my friend Debbie Millman, who had been on my podcast, she's an amazing graphic designer and teacher, but she had unexpectedly on my podcast based on some of my questions for the first time publicly told her story about being sexually abused.

2 (3h 11m 29s):
And so I had leaned on her in years after that in private. and I asked her if she'd be willing to have a conversation with me about our respective journeys and what it felt like, what it looked like, what helped, what didn't help, what worked, what didn't to provide at the very least a glimmer of hope for people who were keeping some of these dark secrets or contending with them not knowing what to do with them. And we had that conversation and I sat on it. I sat on it. I sat on it, and then I put it out and decided in advance that I would not look at any Social Media for at least several weeks afterwards if my team saw anything on Social Media or got emails.

2 (3h 12m 18s):
I didn't wanna see anything other than positive feedback, which is not my defacto, I I'm usually eager to solicit constructive feedback, but in this case, I, I knew that my own position was too vulnerable. I I, I, I didn't want to open up the possibility of, of destabilizing myself and I put it out and I think it's the most important podcast I've ever put out. So I kind of felt like my job was done from a Podcasting perspective after that.

2 (3h 12m 56s):
And it's been incredibly gratifying. I think it has certainly helped a fair number of people And. it was also really hard because what I didn't anticipate was, I would say of my, I really super high performing close male friends, maybe half reached out to me to tell someone for the first time about their extremely awful graphic firsthand experience of being sexually abused. The percentages were mind blowing, like the, the actual percentages were super, super, super high.

2 (3h 13m 38s):
Which is part of the reason I mentioned earlier. I think it's good to spend a little bit of time in those empty spaces to see, you know, am I in a positive energetic sense pursuing something good? Or am I running away from demons whipping my back? And for a lot of those guys, I'm sure it's true for a lot of women too. Like they, they find medication through intense focus and achievement, which is super adaptive in a lot of ways, but it doesn't always have lifetime reliability.

2 (3h 14m 18s):
And that's the story.

1 (3h 14m 23s):
It's impossible to hear the, those stories, your story without feeling some substantial emotion. I'm not trying to intellectualize, it's both, both of those aspects of your history that you shared are, are huge, right? They really are. They're obviously huge for you and, and they're huge in terms of the positive impact in the world. I, I know this because I have read the comments, right? and I and I've talked to people who have listened to those podcasts and read those blogs and, and have similar or maybe different stories of trauma. But I think as with your work in the Psychedelic space, as with your work in the physical augmentation space, whatever you want to call it, it's apparent that you're willing to be first man in on a lot of things.

1 (3h 15m 16s):
And really, ma you, you're sitting alone there in those moments. And these categories of revealing trauma are, in my mind anyway, so much more substantial in terms of their impact, positive impact and the other aspects for our body and Psychedelic work, et cetera, is also tremendously impactful. So that's saying a lot. So just wanna say thank you for, for your bravery and

2 (3h 15m 40s):
Thanks Andrew. Yeah,

1 (3h 15m 41s):
It's, it's crazy cuz I think that a lot of people can imagine telling a story or to a close friend or something, but you know, to put it out into the world, you know, it's like, it's huge. Like you don't know how that's gonna ripple. And you've been a real pioneer and example for, for me, for, for lax for other people and revealing things not like that, but different. And Peter Atias recently been opening up about some serious challenges that he's had in his, in his book. He does that on podcasts. He's been doing it so, you know, yet another category arguably the most important category for exploration and sharing and, you know, thoughtful bravery, right?

1 (3h 16m 25s):
Cuz you didn't just put it out there in any form. So one thing I do know by experience is there's nothing weirder than being told thank you for the painful thing that you did. So I don't want to push that too far, but I'd be remiss if I didn't because it really has its impact and, and for doing it again here today because, so yeah, that huge Thanks for doing that.

2 (3h 16m 45s):
Yeah, my, my pleasure. And I'll, I'll also say, you know, I got advice from a very, very experienced Psychedelic facilitator at one point who said, take the pain and make it part of your medicine. And the way I think that applies here is we all experience pain, we all experience Suffering. Many of us have experienced trauma of one type or another. And that can consume you. I mean it can consume you, but it's like fire, right? It can consume you, but you can also harness it and use it for different things.

2 (3h 17m 27s):
and I know for, I think it's, I I'm not gonna hedge I'll say I know for a fact that there are people I've spoken to who are suicidal. And by the way, I'm not inviting everyone who's listening If, you are suicidal to reach out to me cause it won't work. I've had to disengage from that because it gets too heavy, right? Just to engage one-on-one with people who are suicidal. But there are resources in that post mentioned the practical thoughts on Suicide. But let's just talk about closer friends. People you would never suspect in a million years who are this close to blowing their brains out. People, folks would recognize in some cases, the fact that I was also there once is why they listened to me.

2 (3h 18m 14s):
Cause I have, unfortunately, I'm a subject matter expert man, I have credibility and that actually is very redeeming. It provides some meaning to the Suffering that I experienced. It's like, okay, here I am for whatever host of reasons I am put in this place and time with this person. And they don't trust the input of these other people they're talking to because those people don't know what it's like. But I can look at this person in the eye and be like, oh, I know. And that's just a, a different thing. So you can, you can find a way to transmute that pain into something meaningful, into a gift that hopefully you can share in some way.

2 (3h 19m 2s):
Not necessarily with the whole wide world, just one person. That's a big deal. One person's a big deal. There's a lot out there that is intended for mass consumption that gets in front of millions of people. Doesn't really impact a single person very much. So even If, you don't have podcasts, you don't have books, If, you have the ability to sit down with one person and really make an impact that's actually more meaningful than most of the crap that gets put out there. So take heart.

1 (3h 19m 30s):
Amen to that. I'd like to spend a little bit of time talking about the roles you see yourself in. You know, I, I had this list coming in here of, okay, you've done the exploration of the health sphere. You self experimentation. You, you're, you've been an investor, you are an investor, you're a podcaster, you're, you know, I think these are more than titles. I, I think titles are great, but titles are what we get from other people telling us what we do or deciding what we do. I'm more interested in how you think about yourself, like your your own Role, Identity and I have to assume you've spent a little bit of time on this.

1 (3h 20m 16s):
Like if one were to go through the, the, the checklist of possible roles. Yeah, right. Okay. I confess I do this. I think like, okay, like I, I think I qual I think I checked the box of animal because we're we're animals after all and we're, you know, humans, you still

2 (3h 20m 29s):
Pole dancing. I think you used pole dancer.

1 (3h 20m 31s):
Absolutely not. Are you still tango dancing?

2 (3h 20m 36s):
I'm planning on getting back into it. Great. That is, that does have some background.

1 (3h 20m 40s):
Yeah. I have Argentine lineage and I'm embarrassed to say I don't tan know tango, but my you got

2 (3h 20m 45s):
The ma you got the mate in the, in the green room.

1 (3h 20m 47s):
So you're set my, my grandparents tango into their eighties, I think. Good late eighties. Yeah, good late eighties. Yeah. Eight steak and smoked cigarettes and were lived until their nineties

2 (3h 20m 59s):
Argentine. I had a

1 (3h 20m 60s):
Champions. Exactly. But I'm curious about the roles that you see yourself in. Like, you know, Role Identity to me is so important in terms of where we see ourselves now and where we see ourselves going for and who knows, maybe you don't have any Role Identity plan, but you know, what are some boxes that you see yourself in now that you really strongly identify with? And then what are some boxes that you'd like to check off going forward?

2 (3h 21m 29s):
So current boxes, I would say the two that I probably identify with most, maybe three. But I'll, I'll, I'll focus on two experimentalist, which can take a lot of forms that that can, can, that can apply to a whole lot of different spheres. So experimentalist and then teacher. And for the longest time, long, long time I thought eventually I would go back and actually be a ninth grade teacher because I feel like that is such a critical window for so many kids where they can either hit an inflection point and go in a really good direction or they can go in a really bad direction.

2 (3h 22m 12s):
and I certainly saw that on Long, long Island with a lot of my friends, a lot of overdoses, bunch of friends who have died of opiate addiction and various things. and I had some intervention with mentors early on that, that sort of flipped the switch on the railroad track and sent me in a different direction. So I thought for a long time I would go back and be a ninth grade teacher and my impulse to Experiment leads to enthusiasm for teaching, if that makes any sense. Because I feel like as good as I might be or decent at taking a complex subject, deconstructing it, applying 80 20, putting things in order and learning things very quickly, which includes stress, testing assumptions in that sort of assumed progression for skill, like language learning.

2 (3h 23m 7s):
There's so many myths in language learning. As an example, if it takes me, say six months to become reasonably competent in Field X, I can usually get other people to that standpoint of competence in a third of that time. So for me, it's very gratifying to teach and I view all the books as teaching tools. I'm no tools toy. I recognize I'm not the world's greatest writer. I take the writing seriously. I don't have asset. I do many, many, many revisions. Even for Cockpunch, it's like 27 revisions for a short story called Cockpunch. So I take it seriously, but I recognize that I'm not the world's greatest wordsmith, but I am looking for outcomes in readers or listeners and I view my job as that of teacher.

2 (3h 24m 1s):
So I'd say experimentalist and teacher are the two. And those both go a long way and applies to say dog training, you know, lots of ran, lots of experiments. And then

1 (3h 24m 16s):
For, those listening Tim just looked under the table. One thing I should have said at the beginning, and I did not, is that this is the first Huberman Lab podcast to feature a guest who brought their dog. So we have Molly is here as well. And we're absolutely delighted there has not been a dog at, on the Huberman Lab podcast since Costello passed away. And I'm, you know, practically floating in, in delight that Molly's here today. Yeah, she's, she's amazing. And you've done an amazing job training her too,

2 (3h 24m 47s):
So thank you. Yeah, she's, she's laying right next to my feet, licking my hand as I speak. So good. And I'd say if I were to expand that by one, I would probably say explore. But the exploring goes hand in hand with the experimentation. So that could be geographic exploration, it could be spending time with people who are excellent at anything in any field and seeing where that gingerbread trail leads me. And I think the, the, the exploration and the experimentation are for me, bedfellows, they go together.

1 (3h 25m 29s):
What about roles that you would like to explore or potentially see yourself in? I mean, I don't have a magic wand, but if I did as a fellow podcaster and I consider you a friend, I would say okay, like if I could wand you to the success in given role, that wouldn't be the way it would work. And that wouldn't be as gratifying as having to figure it all out. Yeah. Cuz that's part of your, your machinery as you just told us. So yeah. What are some role life roles that you're interested in expanding and or stepping into that you haven't

2 (3h 25m 60s):
Explored? Yeah, I'd say more, more artists, more artistry, especially in the visual sense because I wanted to be a comic book Penciler for a really long time. Got paid as an illustrator towards the end of high school and during college. So illustrated books and magazines and so on. I didn't, and then I just dropped, didn't know that I dropped it when I graduated cause I was kid stuff And. it was time to get serious and be an adult. and I just cold Turkey just stopped all of it. And so the skills of atrophied a lot, but there's still, there's still a bit in there. I've

1 (3h 26m 29s):
Seen some posts on Instagram that were yeah, quite

2 (3h 26m 32s):
Good. So I'm still messing around. Yeah, I'm still messing around and especially when I have some structure I do well. So I'd, I'd like to pursue that. I would like to Experiment with animation. So I don't know if animator would be the right label because I most likely would not be doing the animation myself. But playing a role in visual art would be one father would be another one eventually. And try not to be attached to it. But we all play games of various types and if we get really good at certain games that are socially rewarded, then you make money doing a podcast or investing or whatever it might be.

2 (3h 27m 14s):
But when my, when when, when the sort of ramp of my learning starts to flatten out a bit, I tend to get bored of those games. and I think that certainly one of the biggest adventures must be Parenthood. So at some point I think father would be on there and I should say, this is very judgmental to me to say, but I think there's a big difference between wanting to, wanting to be a parent and wanting to have kids. I'm, I'm very cautious about saying I wanna have kids because it doesn't automatically imply you want to be a good parent, which is also why I thought it was very important for me to spend a lot of time training Molly and ought

1 (3h 28m 1s):
Of learning there. Right?

2 (3h 28m 2s):
Yeah. Just see, it's like, all right, am I gonna do the heavy lifting and the hard work, recognizing that kids are not deferred dogs. But I do think they're actually a lot of similarities in terms of just predictive ability. If, you see someone who has dogs that are terribly trained, look at their kids. My, you might see some

1 (3h 28m 24s):
Similarities. My, my good friend, my good friend I'll out him here who's a MDMA p she's their chair of ophthalmology at Stanford. Jeff Goldberg once asked him if he has any pets and he said that he and his wife had three children as preparation for having a dog.

2 (3h 28m 40s):
That's hilarious. There's a quote also from a book called Don't Shoot the Dog, which is terrible title, but excellent book written by Karen Pryor, who was a, an aquatic mammal trainer. So she was training dolphins and whales and so on, which don't respond to negative reinforcement. You can't really hit them with a rolled up newspaper if they don't do what you want. And there's a quote in that book, which is something along the lines of, I can't remember the attribution, it's another trainer, And. it was, people should not be allowed to have children until they've successfully trained chicken, because also chickens like, they, they just don't have the brain power to respond to much negative reinforcement.

2 (3h 29m 23s):
So you have to coax them to do what you want them to do with positive reinforcement. and I mean operating classical conditioning. It's kind of same Sam across the board, whether you're like the CIA trying to train cockroaches to flip light switches. Not making that one up, by the way, or training whale, or training a cat or training a human training Sounds bad. Cultivating a wonderful human. Yeah. Then I think there's a lot to be learned across the board. So I've successfully proven to myself that I can keep a dog alive and happy.

1 (3h 29m 55s):
Yeah. And train up another happy nervous system. Yeah. You know, curate another nervous system. That's a big deal.

2 (3h 30m 1s):
Oh yeah. Well, she's also like my external nervous system. So we, we sort of work in tandem. I pay a lot of attention to how she relates to different people.

1 (3h 30m 11s):
I saw earlier Today I mean as someone who is the owner of a Bulldog Mastiff who knew one command, which was weight, which is, which is the, the by default, the easiest thing to train a bulldog because it, when, when you, by the way, folks If, you stop a bulldog on the street to scratch them and they look delighted. They might like you, but chances are they're just really relieved that they get to stop. So, and Costello, he had a forebrain and he was smart about what he needed to be smart about. But Molly is exceptional. Like she knows where she needs to be and she's super connected to you and she knows a ton of commands. It was ridiculous. Our staff was like delighting in the number of things that Tim could get her to do just by looking at her.

2 (3h 30m 51s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. She's, she's also quite calm out of the box, which helps, although it makes it harder in some respects to train, because she doesn't have much food drive. Hmm.

1 (3h 31m 4s):
If you ever, she liked those Maui newy sticks were chomp. She like the nuy

2 (3h 31m 7s):
Sticks. Yeah, she loves the Maui newy Venison sticks. But she, well, okay, I'll, I'll give, I'll say two things. So first is If, you, your dog is a spas about food. That's actually great news. It will make your dog very easy to train in some respects. Read, don't shoot the dog. It's, it's excellent. And there's some others I could recommend. I had a woman named Su Susan Garrett on my podcast. Cause I wanted an objective measure of successful dog training and competitors have objective measures. So she was an a dog agility champion for many years, which has a lot of metrics. So anyway, I had her on for people who were interested. But the, the, the tip that I got from one dog trainer early on, because I was trying to train Molly and I was using just some of her kibble, had like, put some kibble in a bag and carried it around.

2 (3h 31m 55s):
And she was like, what are you doing? and I said, what do you mean, what am I doing? She's like, is that kibble? I'm like, yeah, it's kibble. And she goes, she's like, Hey pal. She's like, you're at a crowded bar. You got a tip of twenties, nice to get your dog's attention. You take your, I love it to the dog park. It's like squirrels, other dogs, grass piss on the pavement, whatever it happens to be. You have to have good treats. So if your dog isn't responding, chances are maybe you're trying to tip with singles.

1 (3h 32m 18s):
I love it. I love it. Well, thank you for sharing the roles you see yourself in and the ones that you'd like to step into more. I certainly feel I have the jurisdiction to say that you are an exceptional experimentalist and a phenomenal teacher. We've seen this across so many. You're welcome. And, and I'm not just speaking for myself, I'm speaking, speaking for so many other people as well. And we've seen this across so many domains. It's like blogging, Podcasting, book writing, stage lecturing, being a guest on a podcast, you know, and on and on. And in terms of the roles that you want to expand into more, I can't wait to see the illustrations that, that emerge.

1 (3h 33m 1s):
Yeah, yeah. Please do Me too. Grow that flame because I, I'm excited for what comes out, Cockpunch being just the first

2 (3h 33m 9s):
Of them leading the charge.

1 (3h 33m 10s):
Yeah. And you know, I can say, because I know because I have one and because I I have observed many kids and friends who are fathers, you're gonna be an exceptional father. Aand absolutely confident of that. Thanks,

2 (3h 33m 29s):
Man. Yeah, I appreciate that. Yeah.

1 (3h 33m 32s):
And I wanna say, thanks for taking the time to talk with me, Today, I've been looking forward to this so much. My team knows this. We, we were sort of buzzing, like, you know, we've had some heavy hitters on this podcast. You know, we only look to the top 1% in field and they're, you know, incredibly credentialed by whatever standards we happen to be exploring. And they have to be Bill people that I really want to talk to. So I have so much respect for what you do and the way you do it. You've certainly inspired me. This podcast would not exist. I don't think the genre of Podcasting would exist and look the way that it does. Had you not made the decision to start Podcasting.

1 (3h 34m 13s):
And in anticipation of this episode, I did put out a ping on Twitter for questions, and there were many, many of them that maybe we'll do a q and a sometime, maybe not, who knows. But, you know, one of the questions that really stood out to me was, you know, how does Tim feel about all these other people coming into all the spaces that he's worked and doing successful work that builds off so much of what he's done? And I'll let you answer, but for me, I can say that I've been positively inspired and built so much of what we've been doing here and, and what I think about based on the ways that you've podcasted and communicate with the public to maintain your stance and integrity in the way that you interact with people.

1 (3h 34m 53s):
It's really inspiring and you've always been so gracious to me and so humble and so giving and, and at the same time, I know there's a fierce sky in there who likes to get it done. So once again, thanks for being first man in. Thanks for taking on all the roles that you have and that you are and that you will. And thanks for being a giver. Oh, we all benefit.

2 (3h 35m 13s):
Thanks Andrew. I really appreciate you saying all that. and I want people to just get after it, take things seriously, have fun, and be really, really good. So, watching, for instance, what you've done, which has been so spectacular, so well executed, makes me super happy. and I don't view anyone as competition in the Podcasting world, for instance, in the book world, I don't view it that way either. and I just hope that people keep experimenting, pushing the envelope.

2 (3h 35m 54s):
And if people aren't say getting better over time, if people aren't following who are substantially better than me in all of these ways, then I would be super disappointed. So every time I see someone doing something really impressive or doing something I never would've thought of, I get so extremely excited. I, I find it really fun to watch. So appreciate you also just getting out there and hard charging and taking your podcast as seriously as you do. I mean, I, I've seen the notes, I've seen the setup, I've met the team. It's, it's very inspiring for me. Also, it makes me wanna dust off my cleats and get back on the field. So,

1 (3h 36m 33s):
Oh man, you've never left the field and you've had a hand in it all. So thank you so much and hope you'll come back and visit us again here.

2 (3h 36m 42s):
Yeah, I hope so. It's been a real pleasure. I've been looking forward to this for a long time as well. and I appreciate you inviting me on

1 (3h 36m 50s):
Till next

2 (3h 36m 51s):
Time. Till next time, man,

1 (3h 36m 52s):
Thank you for joining me for today's discussion with Tim Ferriss. I hope you found it to be as informative and as actionable as I did. For links to Tim's books, as well as for a link to his weekly blog, please see the show note captions. You'll also find a link to Tim's podcast, the Tim Ferriss podcast, and I highly recommend that you subscribe and listen to the Tim Ferriss podcast. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on both Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review, If, you have questions for me or comments about the podcast or guests that you'd like me to include on the Huberman Lab podcast.

1 (3h 37m 33s):
Please put those in the comment section on YouTube. I do read all the comments. Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast.

Momentous (3h 37m 44s):
Not on today's episode, but on many previous episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derived tremendous benefit from them for things like enhancing sleep, for hormone support and for focus. The Huberman Lab podcast is proud to have partnered with Momentous supplements. To see the supplements discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast, go to live Momentous spelled O u s. So that's live Momentous dot com slash Huberman. Again, that's live Momentous dot com slash Huberman.

1 (3h 38m 10s):
If you're not already following us on Social Media, I am Huberman Lab on Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn. And at all those places I discuss science and science related tools, some of which overlaps with the content of the Huberman Lab podcast, but much of which often does not overlap with the content of the Huberman Lab podcast. So again, it's Huberman Lab on all Social Media platforms. In addition, If, you haven't subscribed to our Neural Network Newsletter. It's a zero cost monthly Newsletter that provides summaries of podcast episodes as well as toolkits, for instance, toolkits for optimizing sleep, or toolkits for learning and neuroplasticity, or for deliberate Cold Exposure for Dopamine, and on and on. To sign up for the Neural Network Newsletter, simply go to Huberman Lab dot com, go to the menu, scroll down to Newsletter and provide your email.

1 (3h 38m 54s):
We do not share your email with anybody. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion with Tim Ferriss. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science.