1 (0s):
Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science and science based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine Today. my guest is Tony Hawk. Tony Hawk is one of the most celebrated and accomplished professional skateboarders of all time. For more than 40 years. He has been at the forefront of the sport, and I don't mean just doing a sport for more than 40 years. I truly mean he has been at the forefront of skateboarding, developing new maneuvers, a k a tricks that include incredible feats like the 900 and 900 degree spin in the air, as well as numerous other maneuvers that have really pushed the entire sport forward.

1 (44s):
He's also completely popularize the sport through his video game and through his ambassadorship for skateboarding. In fact, few, if any names are as synonymous with skateboarding in the general public as Tony Hawk. And he is oh so deserved of that title because for more than 40 years, he has shown up as the consummate professional. He is kind, he's respectful, and he is completely committed to his craft And that shows up in every aspect of his life. He still, to this day, skateboards daily. And as you'll soon learn, he recently suffered a major injury, a complete break of his femur that is the bone in his upper leg. And this is what many people would consider a career ending injury.

1 (1m 26s):
Not only did Tony come back from that injury, but he went back to the very Trick on which he broke his femur and recently completed that Trick. That is a five 40 or so-called twist. I mentioned this because at every level of his life, Tony has demonstrated himself to be somebody with incredible drive, incredible vision, and incredible Persistence. And today we talk about that drive vision and Persistence, and we talk about what it takes to set a goal and to continually evolve one's goal and to continually progress as a basically young preteen, as a teenager, as a young adult, as an adult. And well, let's face it. As a 55 year old man, he is now heading a little bit past middle age, although we do hope that he lives forever.

1 (2m 11s):
Tony Hawk, a k a, the Birdman really does seem to be superhuman But as you learn today, he is oh, so human in the way that he shares his own experience and shares with you. The ways in which we can each and all look at what we do and think about what we want to achieve and put our minds and our bodies to those goals and achieve them. I confessed that the today's discussion with Tony Hawk was a particularly thrilling one for me to have. I grew up in the sport of skateboarding, so I had met Tony previously, although he doesn't remember it. That was many years ago. In fact, I met his parents. You'll learn more about that story during today's episode, but I was aware of course, of Tony's accomplishments. I was also aware of his philanthropy, so he has a Skatepark foundation.

1 (2m 55s):
I also listened to his podcast with another professional skateboarder, Jason Ellis called Hawk Versus Wolf. We provided a link to that podcast in the show note captions as well. But never before have I had the opportunity to sit down and talk to the Tony Hawk and learn from him. So I was absolutely delighted to have this conversation and it far exceeded my already lofty expectations. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the sponsors of today's podcast.

LMNT (3m 32s):
Our first Sponsor is Element Elements is an electrolyte drink that has everything you need and nothing you don't. That means plenty of electrolytes, sodium, magnesium, and potassium, but no sugar. The electrolytes and hydration are absolutely key for mental health, physical health and performance. Even a Slight degree of dehydration can impair our ability to think our energy levels and our physical performance element makes it very easy to achieve proper hydration, and it does so by including the three electrolytes in the exact ratios they need to be present. I drink element first thing in the morning. When I wake up, I usually mix it with about 16 to 32 ounces of water. If I'm exercising, I'll drink one while I'm exercising, and I tend to drink one after exercising as well. Now, many people are scared off by the idea of ingesting sodium because obviously we don't want to consume sodium in excess. However, for people that have normal blood pressure and especially for people that are consuming very clean diets, that is consuming not so many processed foods or highly processed foods, oftentimes we are not getting enough sodium, magnesium, and potassium, and we can suffer as a consequence. And with element simply by mixing and water. It tastes delicious. It's very easy to get that proper hydration. If you'd like to try Element, you can go to Drink Element, that's lt.com/ Huberman to claim a free element sample pack with your purchase. Again, that's drink element LMNT dot com slash Huberman.

ROKA (4m 52s):
Today's episode is also brought to us by ROKA. ROKA makes eyeglasses and sunglasses that are the absolute highest quality. I've spent a lifetime working on the biology of the visual system, and I can tell you that your visual system has to contend with an enormous number of challenges in order for you to be able to see clearly. ROKA understands this and has developed their eyeglasses and sunglasses so that you always see with perfect clarity In addition. They're extremely lightweight and they won't slip off your face if you get sweaty. Indeed ROKA, eyeglasses and sunglasses were initially designed for performance in sports, but now they include aesthetics and styles that are really designed to be worn anytime. I, for instance, wear readers at night. I'll sometimes wear sunglasses during the day when I drive, and of course I do not wear sunglasses when I do my morning sunlight viewing, which I highly recommend everyone do their morning sunlight viewing. If you'd like to try ROKA eyeglasses or sunglasses, you can go to ROKA, that's ROKA dot com and enter the code Huberman to save 20% off your first order. Again, that's ROKA ROKA dot com. Enter the code Huberman at checkout.

1 (5m 53s):
And now for my discussion with Tony Hawk Tony Hawk, welcome. Thanks. I'm particularly thrilled to have this conversation because I've tracked your career for a very long time. Grew up in the skateboard thing.

2 (6m 7s):
I I know

1 (6m 9s):
Had your poster on my

2 (6m 10s):
Wall. Oh, thank you.

1 (6m 11s):
Your, your name is synonymous with skateboarding as You know. I think a question that probably get asked from time to time, but let's just clarify the data from the outset. Tony Hawk is your real name, right? Yes.

2 (6m 23s):
Anthony Frank Hawk. But I never went by Anthony. My, I mean, my parents call me Tony since I could remember. So

1 (6m 30s):
It's a fitting name given the sport And What. You do, and we will get into this a little bit later when we talk about family and parenting and parents, but I'll allude to the story now that when I was 14 years old, your parents took me in. Yeah, I slept in your bed. I know. In your home. It's so wild. Not with you in it, but surrounded by your, a near infinite number of trophies. And I And I and I, and

2 (6m 55s):
It must've been right after I moved out,

1 (6m 58s):
So this would be, I was 14 years old. Maybe I'll just tell the story now very briefly. I was 14 years old. I was at a contest at Linda Vista Boys Club. Yeah. Everyone left. Me and another kid named Billy Waldman we're still there. Your dad said, where, where are you going? It was clear that I didn't know where I was going. My life was, I was a wayward youth at that time. And so they took me in for a night, maybe even two nights. Your mom, Nancy, and your dad Frank, were so gracious, brought me in into your home, took me to dinner. I don't

2 (7m 33s):
Recall that does, I mean that tracks that, that would definitely, my dad and my mom together would be doing that. Yes,

1 (7m 37s):
Yes. Incredible people. And we'll get back to that story later 'cause you and I actually met the next day in Fallbrook at your ramp, but Oh, Fallbrook. So

2 (7m 45s):
Had it been 88, 89, that's

1 (7m 48s):
Right. I'm gonna say, I'm gonna say 89. Okay. And it must've been one of the either N s A or Castle contests Yeah. That your dad was very active in. Well, we'll get back to that, but I have so many questions that relate to skateboarding to you and really as a neuroscientist to the whole concept of a life of continual progression. Because whether or not people listening to this and watching this are skateboarders or not, and I imagine that most of them are not, it's absolutely clear that you've been in this game a very long time, And, that you've somehow managed to continue to progress over and over to come back from very severe injuries and somehow keep getting better and better.

1 (8m 32s):
So the first question I have is about the younger version of you. Did you have any sort of self-concept like, You know I wanna be a pro athlete, or I wanna be a skateboarder, or I wanna have a video game named after me. Right, right, right. Exactly. You know, but if you can think back to maybe even pres skateboarding, do you remember what your self-concept was? You know this notion of like, I'm, I have a, a self and I'm either similar or different to other kids in some way.

2 (9m 6s):
When I was young, I was put in a lot of advanced classes and not that that felt like a badge of honor. It felt more like I was just classified as a nerd. But then I thought, okay, well that's my strength, so I'll lean into that. And, and I thought that maybe I would be a teacher. 'cause I thought, well, I, I get all these concepts and I think I could relate them to kids or to, to my peers. 'cause I helped a lot of my classmates through some of some classes. So that's all I really had. I didn't know. And then when I would play sports, I would, I would be okay. You know I wasn't, I wasn't terrible, but I wasn't the V I P or the M V P.

2 (9m 45s):
And so I was just kind of playing basketball, playing baseball. And then when I found skateboarding, I mean, it was, it was pretty obvious that that was What I wanted to do. It was once, once I got on a skateboard and realized that I could maneuver it and do things that were unique. And not that they were moving the needle or anyone cared, but they were unique in the sense of like, I didn't, I've never seen anyone do this and this feels awesome. And so I just wanna do this. And so I didn't think that this is my career. I was 10, so I just thought, this is, this is my, this is, this is my hobby. This is, this is my thing and I don't wanna play these other sports anymore.

1 (10m 30s):
Did you stop playing all the other sports? Yes.

2 (10m 33s):
I, I quit. I quit little league in the middle of the season when my dad had been appointed president of that chapter of Little League because he was the coach. He was always very involved in all of his kids. I have three siblings. So he was always very supportive, whatever they were doing. And then when I was playing baseball, he became a coach 'cause he had time and he was doing that. He was, he was You know, almost retired. And then he was such a prominent figure in the little league. They said, oh, you're president now. And so then someone else was coach and then I was skating and I was over it.

1 (11m 9s):
Did you immediately start skateboarding in the parks on transition as we say? Or or were you pushing around in the driveway like most kids?

2 (11m 16s):
I was, it was, I was transportation and skating was kind of a fad. So I started in 78, roughly, maybe 77 even. And it was kind of a fad. So kids just had skateboards and they would, they would all cruise around, You know, like it was the seventies, so everyone had a bike. Right. And you knew where all the kids were. 'cause the bikes were in the front lawn. And then at some point that kind of turned into skating. So everyone had skateboard. They were all like shitty You know JC Penney or big box store skateboards. No one had really good ones. Not in my area. But then at some point we were just looking at these magazines of people skating and everyone's skating in pools.

2 (12m 1s):
'cause that was the Dog town and Z Boys era. And it was like, these guys are flying. I want to, like, where do we do that? And then the Skatepark opened up in San Diego that

1 (12m 9s):
Delmar Skatepark Skate Race, Oasis oas. Okay. Oasis.

2 (12m 13s):
Oasis Skatepark was the first one in our area. Actually I take that back. Spring Valley was the first Skatepark. I tried to go there and I was nine and you had to be 10. And I remember like sitting in the parking lot looking over the fence and my dad didn't realize what the eight, 'cause my dad would've easily lied for me. But he didn't realize there was an age limit. And he said, how old is he? Nine. Oh, sorry, he can't come. And then they closed not long after. So wha I never got to skate Spring Valley.

1 (12m 42s):
'cause I, I think of you as synonymous with Delmar Skate Ranch.

2 (12m 45s):
Sure. Well that was, that came later because Oasis Skatepark was open that, so this was when I first went, it was like 78, a friend of mine was going and he said, I'm gonna go to the Skatepark. So I had to go get You know. It was such a hassle. Like I had to go get the authorization form, I had to get it notarized by the bank for my parents like to go there. And then I went and it was, that was my epiphany when I first saw people flying around in person. I was like, this is what I'm doing for as long as I could possibly do it. 'cause it looked, it looked like magic. It really did. It looked like they were flying on magic carpets. And, and it spoke to me in the sense of being a daredevil, but also doing it individually.

2 (13m 31s):
Not relying on my team, not getting, getting hassled by a coach. It was just like, oh, I could be part of the scene but do it my own way. And then I skated Oasis as much as I could as whenever I get your rides there. And then my parents moved to North County San Diego when I was in High School mostly because they were just chasing kind of real estate deals. And, and so I got lucky that Delmar Skate Ranch was right there. Every other park closed, but Delmar Skate Ranch remained open. So I mean there was a bit of luck to all that. And then it was based on geography.

1 (14m 14s):
Your dad's involvement is interesting because I got into skateboarding because You know my dad wasn't around that much at that time. A lot of kids get into skateboarding because it doesn't require parent involvement. Was it unusual to have parental involvement at that stage? Yes. Yeah. I mean I remember Frank and by the way, I remember Frank and Nancy, your parents with, with, with such fondness. Not just 'cause they took me in, but I remember thinking like they're, they were at times the only point of stability in a landscape of like 200 people. Where as You know there could be like potential chaos of any kind. Oh yeah. Always. And your dad had this way of moving about like he wasn't afraid. I recall that. He wasn't afraid to say what he thought. Like, Hey, don't do that. Like impose some regulation at these contests.

1 (14m 56s):
And at the same time, it seemed he also understood that this was a sport, unlike other sports. Like, you're not gonna regulate kids like me at the time or you're not gonna try and control people. So what was it like to have your dad involved? And the reason I ask is that you're a parent. We'll talk more about parenting, but also it seems that he went from saying, okay, You know little league other sports, which is more typical to okay, this kind of unusual sport skateboarding, but your mere interest in it was enough to get him excited or motivated enough to take you around to these places. That's pretty special. I mean that's pretty

2 (15m 32s):
Unique. It was. I mean, and, and in that respect, it was great to have his support and, and to rely on him for that. The fact that he was always around And, that he was in charge of, of a lot of the events that, that sucked because, because it just marked me as one being favorited and spoiled. And, and most of my friends, their parents didn't want them skating. So even though they were stoked that my dad had was, was doing this kind of thing and giving that kind of support, they still were like, your dad's here. Like this is our thing. This is our scene. This is our getaway from our parents. I, I didn't really have a choice in the matter.

2 (16m 13s):
I did, I did at some point tell him my, my concerns and my frustrations with it. But he didn't really wanna hear it. You know. He was, he was very much steadfast. Like, well I'm, I'm been coming this far. Like you can, we can keep our distance at these events, but people are relying on me to organize them. And so I just had to suck it up for a while. Did

1 (16m 38s):
You push you harder, like You know if you could prove yourself with a skateboarding and you didn't have to worry about any claims of favoritism? 'cause ultimately yeah, you can't fake, you can't fake skateboarding. Right, right. I mean there's no deep fake version of skateboarding. No You know. You either can do it or you can't do it. And it's shown in real time. So, and I suppose back then I recall you were, you're quite a bit s skinny or skinnier? Oh

2 (17m 4s):
Yeah. Oh, I had, I had all kinds of things going against me at the time.

1 (17m 9s):
Yeah. I mean I don't think people will realize this unless they've met you in person, but nowadays there are a few taller skateboarders out there. 'cause the sport's grown so much, but you're pretty tall. You're like 6, 6 3.

2 (17m 19s):
But okay. I was not, when I was growing, when I was that age, I was very small and kind of concerningly small because by the time I got to be 16, I was still, I looked like I was 13. I used to get pulled over. I literally, like I had a car that I bought with my earnings. I had a Honda Civic, 1977 C B C C and I would get pulled over and then the cops would be like, how, how old are yoga? 16? Like, well you looked like you were 13 back there. And then I shot up around age 17.

1 (17m 57s):
Okay. So that's interesting and we can get back to this when we talk about your almost remarkable levels of ability to recover from physical injuries because, well, I'll just share a little bit of, of biological theory here, which is that You know there are a lot of people that study longevity and perhaps the fastest rate of aging that we ever undergo is puberty, right? If you think about a kid before puberty, kid after. But it's different human being psychologically, often physically as well. Some people have a longer arc of puberty than others. And that does seem to correlate with a longer life. And so it's kind of interesting, You know some kids hit puberty and they go through all the markers of puberty in like one summer. Right. Other kids, it's very, very long.

1 (18m 37s):
And it sounds like we don't have to talk about when you hit puberty and the other markers, but it sounds like you gross spurt occurred late. Oh yeah. That's a terrific marker of a long life by the way. Because what it reflects is the onset of a big burst of growth hormone out of the pituitary and the brain. And if you continue to grow for a long period of time, that indicates You know. It gives you a little bit of the, the slope of the line. Does that make sense? Oh yeah,

2 (19m 2s):
For sure. So this,

1 (19m 3s):
This may have important and fortunate consequences. So at 17 you shot up, am I correct in remembering? Maybe you said it maybe somebody else did that you were, forgive me, but so skinny when you were a kid that you actually wore elbow pads as knee pads. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's a true, that's a true story. Yeah,

2 (19m 20s):
For sure. And and I took Inspiration from others that, that I identified with namely Steve Caballero because he was already an established pro when I started to come up in the ranks or even get noticed at all. And he was wearing elbow pads on his knees in this full page picture of him in Winchester doing a backside era. And I was like, that, I wanna do that. And he's small and I feel like that's my goal. And Stevie has And What, didn't he say? Like, if he can do it, I can do it. It was just more like, oh, this, I identify with that. And And that gives me hope.

1 (19m 55s):
And as I recall, Stevie also has a pretty severe scoliosis. Right. At one point he

2 (19m 59s):
Scoliosis what he has. He, it's

1 (20m 0s):
At one point he was turned, turned pretty, pretty tight. Yeah. To the, to the right or left. I don't recall. Which, I mean, still incredible. Skateboarder loves Stevie. He's a NorCal guy. So I grew up around

2 (20m 9s):
Him. I know whatever he had is from birth, but, but it was more that, that his size. And I didn't even know he was many, not many, but You know, he's like four years older than me. So I just was like, oh, there's small guys doing that. I can, I can do it maybe. But when I got tall, when I went through puberty, suddenly I had all these tricks and then suddenly I had the, the strength and the, the height that gave me confidence. And so all of a sudden it was like, oh, I can go way higher now and I'm comfortable with these tricks, these intricate board maneuvers and stuff. So that was a huge advantage to me.

2 (20m 50s):
The, the smaller stuff felt different after that, which was harder. But being able to blast a feet in the air as opposed to four feet in the air was a huge advantage.

1 (21m 1s):
Yeah. Isn't that wild? When the nervous system knows how to do something and then your body changes and you can do the same thing but with so much more force. I mean even

2 (21m 9s):
Just, even the bowls look smaller. When I would stand on top of, I was like, wait, this isn't that big.

1 (21m 16s):
It's wild. Well the reason I ask about this, I think You know people listening generally seem to assume that You know if you become a Stanford professor or become a professional skateboarder or you become a professional soccer player, that, that you were just faded to become that. Right. And it's clear that it's the confluence of so many different factors, but one of the consistent factors for sure is a sense that you just really love doing it. Right? I mean, I can't imagine getting You know proficient or excellent at anything without loving doing it. Right. And so still at this time when you were, let's say 14, 15, did you have any concept of You know I'm gonna of a pro model, I'm gonna, none of that?

1 (21m 58s):
Well, there

2 (21m 58s):
Was, there was none of that to be had. So we didn't have these great Aspirations because no one had really done that before. There were, you could have some success, yes, you could have maybe a signature model, but even the top sales of skateboarding then wasn't a career. The prize money was $150 for first place, a hundred for second, 50 for third

1 (22m 23s):
Couple tanks of gas, some food. Yeah.

2 (22m 26s):
So let's put it this way. I turned pro when I was 14 by the time I was 15 and a half and I had a, a learner's permit and I could drive a scooter. You know I had $600 in my bank account and I used that to buy a Honda Express moped for a year and a half. That was my earnings was $600.

1 (22m 49s):
So clearly money wasn't the the dopamine hit, it was the, it was the actual skateboarder.

2 (22m 54s):
Sure. And that's What I mean though that there wasn't, there was no goal of that because just didn't exist. So I, I didn't care. Like, are you kidding me? I, I have my own vehicle at age 15. Like I was living large. I was, I could get to the Skatepark on my own. That was amazing.

1 (23m 10s):
To be 14 and be a professional at anything must be a, a trip so to speak. But what I'm wondering about, because I came up when your early cohort with Pal Peralta, so for those that dunno so-called Bones Brigade, right? I guess it was what, total what like six, seven guys? There were some that were a little more peripheral than others. Yeah, there were about six, seven core guys in the various videos. I mean, you guys were famous, right? You had posters on kids' walls who skateboarded There was a second, or maybe it was a third surge of popularity in skateboarding because it would sort of surge in general popularity then disappear and come back as it has over decades.

1 (23m 53s):
It keeps coming and going to some extent. Did you have a conscious awareness of just how You know how much attention was being placed on You know photos of you, videos of you? And I'm just wondering about the younger version of you, whether or not You know you realized what was happening. And the reason I ask is because you've always seemed to me somebody who, through interviews, through videos, through our interactions, and for those who have known you much longer than I have, just very grounded, like not caught up in it. You know, we've never seen headlines about you kind of just You know, blowing all your money or You know wrecking cars and You know destroying your life. I mean, I'm sure you've made mistakes like any of us, but, but you seem to have avoided a lot of the pitfalls of quote unquote famous people and celebrities.

1 (24m 39s):
Sure. And yet you were a famous person from a very young age.

2 (24m 44s):
Yeah. I, I, well I think it was that I didn't never, I never, that was never a goal. And then when I had a sense of it, I was very uncomfortable. I mean, I was happy, I was happy to be successful. I was happy that people recognized me. That that was amazing just because I was good at skateboarding. I never imagined something like that. And, but I was always very, I mean, some people thought that I was sort of almost like pompous or arrogant because I wasn't interacting because I was just, I was walled off. I was like, I'm, I don't know what to do. I don't, gosh,

1 (25m 16s):
Those, this is a little last words I would ever use to describe you.

2 (25m 20s):
I think it was just more that, that that people would see me, like I'd go to a ramp, I didn't know anybody and I would just start skating and I'd do all my stuff. And they were like, oh, he doesn't even talk to anyone. And it, and I was like, I don't know. I dunno what to do. I don't know how to act. Also

1 (25m 33s):
You were, were 14 years old. Correct. So

2 (25m 34s):
Stacey broke me out of that. 'cause I remember one time there was a kid that was just staring at me like hold my skateboard. He had my signature model and he's like, go say hi to that guy. What are you sure? Like he wants, he wants to interact with you, You know, just go high-five him or anything. And, and I learned to sort of break outta my comfort zone by doing that enough. But my first go around, I mean that was, that was sort of my first wave of fame. I'd say The Bones Brigade years. And we were so young that we thought this is forever. And so we were definitely careless with our, our money, with our actions. And, and at some point my dad saw that he didn't think it was gonna be long-term 'cause no one had had a long-term career.

2 (26m 22s):
Right. So he, he encouraged me to, to invest, to get property, like to, to buy a house. That was the, that was my saving grace. 'cause I definitely was spending

1 (26m 36s):
You know on cars and things of that sort.

2 (26m 39s):
Yeah. Car like kind of a little bit beyond my means. I wasn't really considering all my money was was 10 99 income. So it wasn't, we weren't paying taxes on anything. And at the end of the year it'd be like, oh, you owe this much. Like, wait, what you talking about? So for instance, hey, do you wanna go to Hawaii? Yeah. Okay. Invite everyone. We're all gonna Hawaii, I got, let's rent a place. Okay. You know and it was on me 'cause I had the means.

1 (27m 6s):
You mentioned Stacy, we should probably clarify for people Tony's referring to the great Stacy Peralta. Yeah.

2 (27m 13s):
He was, he was the one who put me on The Bones Brigade when I was still considered sort of a circus act like a You know my, my skating was not really established. The stuff that I was doing was largely made fun of because people thought that What I was doing was just more like a free show.

1 (27m 33s):
Can you explain more? So my, and lemme just tell you that my recollection, first recollection of you that I still have that image in my mind would is the finger flip air. Right? You know. So for folks that aren't familiar with skateboarding, You know people ride around on transition or in the street handrail stairs, You know people probably familiar with all those things. But skateboarders will ride up toward the top of the pool or the ramp and they'll do something on the so-called lip or the coping that's to right at the, the edge of it. Or they'll go above it like in the air. But I recall seeing you do the finger flip air. I'd never seen anyone f flip aboard in the air. I'd seen people do burial. So Right. Move it. This is gonna be complicated for people just listening, but just to flip it upside down and then catch it in and and finger flip air.

1 (28m 13s):
Yeah, that was, I remember that was jaw drop, right? It was like, so if that was considered circus era or circus like I would say then, I don't know, I don't know what it was being compared to because at the time we, we probably watched that it was in slow motion as I recall and we probably watched it 3000 times. You know that summer there's a big group of us that all started skateboarding that summer.

2 (28m 37s):
I would say kind of just before that, in that window is when people were, were more giving me flack for What I was doing because I was mostly doing board variation stuff, but I still didn't have the height.

1 (28m 52s):
The height in terms of the height.

2 (28m 53s):
The height in terms of, in terms of getting in the air. Yeah. So I was doing all the stuff kind of right at coping level. And so people weren't taking it into consideration or giving it much merit because it was just like, oh, he's doing a little board twist or a board turn. And then when I started to get some height around the time you saw and started doing those tricks, like visibly way up high, that's when the, the, the shift happened in terms of more acceptance. But I was still labeled as a, as like a Trick skater, robot skater. And then you had Christian Oso who was all style. He is higher than anyone. Yeah. Anytime he did a Trick it was gonna be so flashy and so amazing.

2 (29m 36s):
And

1 (29m 37s):
Rockstar

2 (29m 37s):
Personality. And rockstar personality. And so in that era, you, I mean it was very divided. It was like no one liked us. Both You know, What I mean. It was just so strange to be of that age and of, of doing something that had never really been established. And then suddenly I'm pitted against another skater and we're just trying to make our way through teen years and, and skateboarding and, and it got, it was, it was hard. I mean it was like I got, I got bullied You know. Yes, I was successful. Yes, I always do. But, but I would get, I would get Thrasher Magazine would talk shit about my performance when I would win.

1 (30m 22s):
Yeah, I remember that because I was from Northern California and Thrasher magazine was Skateboard magazine from Northern California. Actually wrote for them for a while when I was a postdoc to make some extra money under a different name folks. But you can try and find those articles. They're out there. And then in southern California it was skateboarder Mag Trans World, mostly Trans world skateboarding. Yeah,

2 (30m 40s):
It was, it was a trans world. Trans world skateboarding and Thrasher magazine were the, were the

1 (30m 44s):
Two the rivals.

2 (30m 45s):
Right. Yeah.

1 (30m 46s):
So yeah, I recall some of those things that were said. It just is amazing to me. But it brings about a really important lesson, which is You know that kid that gets made fun of, if they're determined and they love what they're doing, that's gonna be the kid that blows everyone away later. And I know this for sure because I'll never forget there, do you remember the Back to the City contests? Yeah. That were called in San Francisco. So I went to those, they were in the drain fountains in front of City Hall. I remember getting there one day and there was this guy with kinda like afro like hair pushing around and he was doing what are called Daffy. He had two skateboards and he was kind of like weaving around. And I remember thinking You know San Francisco's got its issues now, but back then it was rough also. Yeah. For different reasons. I remember thinking like, this guy's gonna get beat up.

1 (31m 28s):
I hung out with the Embar Arrow crew. I was like, this guy's gonna get beat down. Yeah. That guy was Mark Gonzalez. Oh yeah. So one of the greatest, perhaps the greatest street skateboarder. Yeah. If you can't really define these things greatest and whatnot in skateboarding. But You know. I remember thinking, this guy's just, he's a kook. And then I realized who it was. Yeah. And then I realized he was just like any other kid there. Yeah. At some level. And then a lot of the kids that got teased early on, they stuck with it five years later. I'm seeing them in the magazines. And I think about this with podcasting too. There've been some podcasters that have reached out early on and had questions. And I look at their stuff and You know one's initial impression can be like, wait, what are they, like, what are they doing here? And then you just see them two years later, three years later, and they're doing amazingly well and you're like, this guy or Galpin is here for good.

1 (32m 14s):
They're gonna, they're probably gonna be top of the game in a few years. So you never count anybody out. When you would go to sleep at night in that era, were you like laying on the pillow going like, oh my God, people hate me. There's stuff in the magazines, I gotta push harder. This is hard. Did you talk to your dad about it? I mean, again, it's a lot to bear. Even as an adult, I can only imagine what it's like to bear As a 15 year old kid,

2 (32m 35s):
I didn't really have a support group You know or any resource to, to voice those concerns. I just knew I wanted to keep getting better. That was it. And so if anything, if I was worried about those voices, if I was worried about the whatever take people had on me, I knew I was just gonna go back to the Skatepark and learn more tricks. And at some point I had so much of that as a foundation that it was sort of undeniable that like, well he, he can do all this stuff and he doesn't doesn't just do it at his home park.

2 (33m 16s):
And I think that's probably when the tide turned for me is when, when I started to do well at other events, namely Upland Pipeline, which was for the most part the most frightening pool that we could ride.

1 (33m 30s):
The thing was big, but I also recall like the, the hips as they're called, like the transitions, the way they match up was super tight.

2 (33m 37s):
A lot of her giant coping super rough. Like if you fell in upland, you're getting chewed up. It's pulling your knee pads down. I didn't

1 (33m 44s):
Know that. 'cause from the photos I wouldn't know that.

2 (33m 46s):
Oh, it was, it was treacherous. It really was like it was, and, and I wanted to do well at the event and I would drive up there every weekend. My, my friend Greg Smith was a freestyler, but he lived near Upland. And so I would go drive Friday after school straight to upland, skate at night, skate Saturday all day, skate Sunday early and then drive home. 'cause I live in San Diego and I just made it my mission to, to figure that thing out because that was the proving ground for me. And so if I could skate that I could go skate anything.

AG1 (34m 23s):
As many of You know, I've been taking a G one daily since 2012. So I'm delighted that they're sponsoring the podcast. AG G one is a vitamin mineral probiotic drink that's designed to me all of your foundational nutrition needs. Now of course I try to get enough servings of vitamins and minerals through whole food sources that include vegetables and fruits every day. But oftentimes I simply can't get enough servings. But with AG one, I'm sure to get enough vitamins and minerals and the probiotics that I need. And it also contains adaptogens to help buffer stress. Simply put, I always feel better when I take AG one. I have more focus and energy and I sleep better. And it also happens to taste great for all these reasons whenever I'm asked, if you could take just one supplement, what would it be? I answer AG one. If you'd like to try AG one, go to drink AG one.com/ Huberman to claim a special offer from now until August 12th, 2023. AG one is giving away 10 free travel packs plus a year supply of vitamin D three K two. Again, if you go to drink AG one.com/ Huberman, you can claim the special offer of 10 free travel packs plus a year supply of vitamin D three K two.

2 (35m 27s):
So it's clear you had enormous drive . Let, let's talk a little bit about the process of trying tricks, the anxiety associated with it. Did you, did you, and do you have a sort of systematic process? Was it You know, I'm gonna learn the basics first. Like, did you say that?

1 (35m 43s):
Did you say, I'm okay, I'm gonna learn how to do stuff You know at coping level, then I'm gonna do a little layer, then I'm gonna go bigger, I'm gonna do this. Or did you just sort of try what you wanted to try and obviously weren't haphazard about it? Like how it seems you're pretty systematic about exploring what's possible and then pushing forward a little by little. But yeah, maybe you could talk a little bit about how you have conceptualized, okay, tomorrow I want to try this, it

2 (36m 12s):
It comes in different forms. But for the most part I think about how I could combine existing tricks and would this Trick work going into this Trick and could your body position shift or would it all work in unison? And when I approach a new Trick, I, I'm saying, I'm saying more in the last 20 years, my thought process is I have all the pieces to this. I've done every bit of it. I've done the, I've done the first part of the Trick in another form. I've done the second part or the grinding of it or whatever. Usually in some other basic way.

2 (36m 52s):
And then the landing is, well the landing is from whatever that is. And if you can throw all those things together and make the timing work, it's gonna work. And I, I never, I never went at something with some ha haphazard approach or throwing caution to the wind like, hope this, see what happens. It's always very much like, I know I have all these things and so I just have to put 'em together. And I mean now things are so technical that my same approach that I'm doing hundreds of times, one of 'em just works. And it's not because I didn't, it's not because I committed to that one. It's because of some tiny fractional adjustment that happened that I didn't even know happened.

2 (37m 35s):
And it just worked. And I mean that kind of is the curse of what tricks are now. 'cause there are plenty of moves that I've done over the last 10 years even that I, I, I only did once 'cause it was too fucking hard to get to and I didn't learn from that one. Make And that that is, that's hard to accept. 'cause in the past I was learning tricks to have them in my arsenal that I could just throw 'em down at a competition or a demo. I've got that in my pocket these days. Like that Trick for instance, I did a, I did a 360 shove it five oh to fakey. Alright,

1 (38m 11s):
Let's, let's break that down for real. 360 shove it. So who's gonna take this on? I'll let you take this on. Okay. I can try it from my knowledge and perspective, but why all we, we'll we'll try 360

2 (38m 19s):
Shove it is pushing the board with your feet and letting it spin a full 360 rotation under your feet and the landing back on it. It's, it's a Trick that people do on usually on flat ground. I've learned, I've learned to do it up on the vert walls. Like I can do 360 shove, it's kind of in the air, but I'm doing that. I'm doing a 360, shove it and then I'm landing on my truck. Right,

1 (38m 45s):
Like the ax solo between the wheels. Yeah.

2 (38m 47s):
On one axle in a what we call a five oh position, which is basically a wheelie on the truck. So everything is so precise. I gotta do a 360, shove it at exactly a certain spot on the wall. I've gotta catch it so that my truck lands, when my foot hits it, I can't push it into the truck. 'cause that, that screws up my balance. So it has to land on the truck. I have to land with my weight perfectly set back enough that I can come in backwards because I'm doing this Trick and, and I'm, I'm going to come in faking. Right 360 shove 5.0 to coming in forward is, is a whole different beast that, that I could probably do that just in a few tries. But the idea that I have to land on this thing, balance on it like a teeter totter and then reverse my energy and come in fakey

1 (39m 37s):
Backward. Yeah.

2 (39m 37s):
It's so hard. It's so hard to, to get into the right position. So like anytime I try it, there's like a one in 10 chance I'm even gonna get into the position I need. And that's the one I have to commit to. So every time I do it, it's so intense and it takes so much, so much commitment and, and so much mind, I don't even know how to explain it. Like the, the, that you have shut everything else out except this one moment and this one fractional piece that you have to make work. And it, I, I've done it once and I like, I would love to do it again, but I know what it's gonna, it's gonna take the same amount of effort.

2 (40m 22s):
I didn't learn from that one that I made some Trick that makes it happen every time. It's all so technical and there's so many things that can go wrong that I'll always accept that. Okay. I did it once.

1 (40m 34s):
In thinking about the 360 show at five Oh fakey. Yeah. Was that something that you thought of the night before you decide that day? Do you ever use Visualization? Have you ever had learning come to you in a dream or find that you try, try tried something, went to sleep that night, next day, made it, anything like that?

2 (40m 52s):
Yes. Sometimes I'll wake up in the middle of the night and I'll write down something 'cause it was like, oh there's this Trick. Oh, I think I could do that. Yeah. Okay, I'm gonna write it down. So you

1 (40m 59s):
Dream about skateboarding from time to time?

2 (41m 1s):
Yeah. Well yeah. That has shifted a bit after I got hurt. But yeah, I used to dream that I can't skate, like I'm trying And that it feels like the ramps made a carpet. I can't get the speed, I can't get the timing. And then as I went through this traumatic injury, my dreams shifted to, wow, I can skate, I can do all my tricks again. Oh, interesting.

1 (41m 20s):
Yeah. a little piece of science around the can't, can't skate peace or when people feel like they're bolted down in a dream or they can't run away. Yeah. There's this one phase of sleep called rapid eye movement sleep, where the brain is very active. The dreams associated with it tend to be very vivid. And at the same time we are completely paralyzed. And the idea is that no one really knows why. But that it's the case that we're paralyzed to prevent us from acting out our dreams. It's also an interesting neurochemical phenomenon. 'cause during these rapid eye movement dreams, they tend to be very intense, but the body can't release adrenaline. So it's almost like its own form of trauma therapy. It's like you're experiencing this intense thing in your mind. Yeah. But your body can't react.

1 (42m 1s):
Yeah. And so oftentimes people have argued that that's why you feel like you want to move and you can't because you actually can't. Yeah. Some people have woken up while still a bit paralyzed in rem Have you ever had that happen where you wake up and No,

2 (42m 13s):
But I, I, but actually a couple of my kids have, have struggled with that a couple times.

1 (42m 18s):
Yeah. REM interference it's called. It's not dangerous. And usually people can jolt themselves out, but it's kind of terrifying. So that's interesting. So we'll get to a discussion about the, the recent injury and thankfully recovery from the injury not miraculous because that makes it seem as if it's surprising. Frankly. I'm not surprised that you've recovered, but it is spectacular the way you have. But you're saying that in your dreams before the injury, you would think about skateboarding but you felt like there was a kind of can't do it.

2 (42m 46s):
When I was, when I was doing it in my dream, there was always some roadblock that I just could, I like, why can't I get any speed? Why can't I, why can't I snap or do this Trick? It's more in the moments where it's twilight moments where I'm kind of awake and I'm thinking about tricks that everything else falls away and I can actually focus on what kind of new moves to come up with. An example of that was recently I went to the X Games in Japan a few weeks ago and I was thinking I I was gonna go more to show my support and 'cause they had a vert event.

2 (43m 27s):
There's not a lot of vert events anymore. So I, if there's a vert event, it's kinda like, if you build it, I'll come. 'cause I'm, I want to show my support. That's, that's kind of where my heart is. And they had a best Trick event and I thought, man, maybe I could get in the best Trick. Is there anything new though? You know and I'm still recovering from my leg. And then at some point I was falling asleep and I thought, oh, I could do that Trick and come in 180. I know I could do that with, with my current state and not getting that much speed. So to explain What I was doing is is a half cab body brail to backside blunt.

1 (44m 3s):
Okay. We can walk through this half cab. Okay. Cab has come up backwards, up 360 coming up backwards. Right. So half of that would go one

2 (44m 8s):
As I, as I approach the top of the ramp. Yep. I body vail. That means I jump around and then I jump around on my board and then I make sure that it lands with my two trucks out and my tail on the coping, which is very precarious. And I've done that and come fakey before.

1 (44m 25s):
That's the blunt piece. That's

2 (44m 26s):
The blunt. Yeah. So I've done that where I where and then you have to, you have to use your feet to lift up the board. Come fakey. Right. I've done that, I've done that twice. And I thought, well I wonder if there's something I could do like that. And then I realized that if I just keep coming around and I come in backside direction, that keeps my body spinning And, that might actually be easier. It wasn't, but I figured it out.

1 (44m 52s):
I think I saw a clip of this on Instagram. I did it. Yeah.

2 (44m 53s):
I mean I did it, I did it X Games And. that was like, it was my last run. I was, it was, I mean, it didn't move the needle. I got seventh place. But for me it was a huge moment.

1 (45m 3s):
It felt amazing. I bet.

2 (45m 6s):
Oh yeah, for sure. I mean, and it, I was, I mean it was like weeks of preparation and, and trying to figure this thing out. I made it twice before the event on my own, alone on my ramp. But that's just an example of, of You know I was, I was literally falling asleep and then all of a sudden it was like half got body rail, backside blunt.

1 (45m 27s):
I love it. That liminal state between wakefulness and sleep is such a beautiful state that if one is open to ideas showing up there. Yeah. They almost always do. I

2 (45m 37s):
I try started trying it the next morning.

1 (45m 40s):
Do you ever find that when you're taking walks or in the shower or not thinking about skateboarding? Yeah,

2 (45m 47s):
It's usually in the, in the sort of mundane moments that, that I get Inspiration. Yeah.

1 (45m 52s):
Do you have practices for pure relaxation aside from socialization?

2 (45m 56s):
I don't. I I was never, I think that's something I've been lacking. I, I never was good at warming up, stretching, post warmup or, or or relaxing You know meditation. Nothing. I just, I, I go skate and it's on. And as I've gotten older I realized that's not the best technique, but it's worked so far.

1 (46m 25s):
It has worked. So for you it's go hopefully a little bit of warmup if you I

2 (46m 29s):
Have more of, of a sort of o c d warmup run that I use to gauge how I'm feeling. But I kind of have to get through that.

1 (46m 38s):
Like a surgeon. When a surgeon's about to do a surgery, they don't warm up. They just check off the various boxes of You know. Yeah, this is here. That's there. Make sure that they're comfortable in their environment. And then they do, they do the, the lifesaving work. Yeah.

2 (46m 53s):
Yeah. My, I I'd say my warmup run is, is kind of basic tricks, but they give me a sense of how, how stiff or how I What I need to adjust for, for the rest of the day. So I guess it's not so O C D, but it, but I definitely feel like I gotta go through that routine.

1 (47m 10s):
What feels the best. Like I, I know that making a new Trick feels incredible, especially if you've been at it a long time. Dialing it in so that you can do it again and again. It's its own form of Reward. Yeah. But What I is the maybe list of two or three things that just feels so good.

2 (47m 29s):
Well that for sure learning new tricks. Not even that that it's something that I created, but just doing something that I've never done before. When I first learned burials, backside burials, no one had done backside burials before. They'd only done front side. And a burial is where you, you reach down, grab your board, jump in the air, and then turn it 180 under your feet. It's, it's like a shove it, but you're guiding with your hand. I learned that halfway up the pool, the, the main pool in a way at Oasis with no one around. And the feeling I got when I rode away was something that I had never experienced. And it is, it is literally the buzz that I've been chasing ever since.

2 (48m 9s):
Because it was like I created something

1 (48m 12s):
Burials below coping was the, was the button. That

2 (48m 13s):
Was it. It really was. And, and if you saw a video of it, you'd be like, that thing, like, what can I say? It was, it was the first time that I thought I thought of it. I, I went through all the motions of it. I did the work and I figured it out and You know no one, no one cared. But at some point I was able to do it six feet in the air and do a full 360 burial. And so that was the building block. But, but that feeling was like no other. I'd say that. And then just even to, to strip everything else away. Like the most basic tricks like a backside Ali is, is an a no handed aerial that used to be what it was called backside, no handed aerial.

2 (48m 59s):
It feels so good because even to this day people, people say, how does the board stay on your feet? And I can't even tell you how the board stays on my feet. I just know I know how to maneuver it and I know how to keep the pressure on it. And the friction going and backside Ollie is like, I think it's like a marvel of physics and, and a clean backside to me is, feels as good as anything. Yeah.

1 (49m 24s):
It's a beautiful thing to behold. I confess I've never done a legitimate backside at Ole on Vert on a mini ramp Sure. But not on vert. So I can't relate to the feeling. But I love, love, love the fact that you brought us back to that early variable below coping feeling And. that that marks the essence of what feels so good when you do something else. Right. It's sort of like a, it's a, as a neuroscientist I see as the same, a chemical stamp. It's like a chemical fingerprint of progress. Yeah. Right. And I'm also delighted to hear that it still feels that good to do these things. 'cause I don't think anyone can have the kind of Lifelong progression that you've had and it's still going without a, not just love of the thing, but love of the feeling that it brings when no one's around.

1 (50m 13s):
Because you said skating a ramp by yourself. So how often are you on your ramp with You know? No one's filming for Instagram. No, nothing for a video. Nothing for a video game. None of that. Maybe there's You know, maybe other guys are around. Gals around. We'll talk about gals too. 'cause one of the big shifts in, in skateboarding since I started is that there's some amazing female skateboarders now. Oh yeah. There's a young lady in fact that's been skateboarding at your ramp. Forgive me, I can't remember her name. Is it Reese?

2 (50m 38s):
Reese. Reese Nelson. Goodness. She's a confuser.

1 (50m 42s):
Goodness gracious.

2 (50m 43s):
I know

1 (50m 43s):
She is. So yeah.

2 (50m 45s):
Good. So good.

1 (50m 47s):
So good. So we'll get back to that. But I think that You know people starting any kind of sport or academic career or business or anything, I think people assume that you go from zero to a hundred somehow And, that there are these people that are just selected by genetics or by luck or by some combination of things to just like get it and be better than everybody else. But it's clear that you've spent a lot of time alone driving someplace to skate the next day or alone at the ramp. Yeah. Or so do you ever reflect on that kind of drive and You know what, what, what that's all about? Or is it just so intrinsic to who you are? It's,

2 (51m 25s):
You're an innate I don't, I don't think about it. I just know I have to do it. It's like, I mean, I, I, we can get into it with my injury, but, but, but to go back to what you're saying is you're saying that, that people think that, oh, you were chosen for this, or genetics, whatever. Have you saw me

1 (51m 42s):
Skate your last name's Hawk after all

2 (51m 43s):
Skate, like if you saw me skate Yeah. When I first started skating, there was no way you'd think that I was natural or that I had any future in it. I was all gangly. I was all over the place. I was eating shit left and right. Like, it just, it, it wasn't, I wasn't good. I wasn't, I wasn't a natural. I've seen people that are naturals and I've seen that how they don't have that drive, they don't have the Discipline and it's not wasted. But it, they just don't, they don't utilize, they don't take advantage of, of what they have naturally. And, and for whatever reason, I don't, I don't fault anyone for it, but I've seen both sides of it. And I've also seen other skaters who are just driven and who are not really good kind of sloppy and become the best.

2 (52m 31s):
Andrew Reynolds. Oh yeah. When we put him on our team, he was just like me, super gangly. His board's bouncing around. He, but he's trying every single Trick and every time he send me a video, it's some new technique that he's figured out. And he didn't really ha by the untrained eye, he didn't have the skillset for, and then he became the boss. You know What, I mean. So I think it's just you, you have to, you have to give that as much weight as natural talent, if not more. I'd say more.

1 (53m 4s):
Yeah. I, I would certainly say more for science and You know the people who are in the lab late at night and early in the morning and drilling away. Not, not always the smartest, certainly not the dumbest, but smart enough to show up when other people are leaving and continue. Yeah. And I think there has to be a little bit of friction internally. You know. Oh yeah. Maybe externally also, but just some friction. Some I'm gonna show you. Yeah.

2 (53m 30s):
Yes. You know. Okay. I, my best example of that, and I haven't talked about this yet 'cause I did it privately, but I, I broke my leg doing a mc twist. Something that I've done thousands of times. 5 45 40. Yeah. So it's a, it's a one and a half spin in the backside direction, but that particular grab that you do makes it a mc twist because it makes you kind of flip upside down. So it's kind of a one and a half somersault. I, it's not my Trick, it's Mike McGill's Trick. I learned it not long after he created it in 1984. Been doing it ever since. I mean, I'm talking about 40 years of my twist. Right? I've gotten hurt once or twice, but not bad.

2 (54m 13s):
Anyway, I fucked around and found out, did one with no speed last year, thinking I could do it. Like I was still 20 and got tangled up and, and broke my femur. I had a super long recovery. I had a false start. I had a non-union fracture, which means my bone never connected back to itself. And it kept be pushing itself further away. And that's all in the past. I, I got a second surgery in November and all along in the back of my head is I gotta get back to five forties. I have to, and I can't explain why I have to, I hate that it means that much to me, but it, it's in here.

2 (54m 56s):
You know What I mean. It's not, it's not a sense of pride. It's not like I have to prove this to anyone. I just have to do it. And last week I did it. It was so scary and I prepped for it. I, I mean, even down to like my diet and I, I stopped drinking altogether and I was like, every time I go to the ramp, I'm just trying five 40, like to get the spin, to get the, to get the landing zone with no intention of making it. Just that I had to get there. And then I had to have this heart to heart with my wife that You know she doesn't wanna see me get hurt. She doesn't wanna see me risking myself at this age anymore. She doesn't wanna live through another traumatic injury with me.

2 (55m 39s):
And I had to tell her like, I have to do this. She was gracious and accepting and that's all I could ask for. It wasn't like, she was like, yeah, you gotta go do it. It was like, okay, that's who you are. And so she was there, she was my only spectator.

1 (56m 0s):
So good. I confess, I've seen a video of this and my first response was F yes. And my second response was that was really high. Like this is no You know, just above coping five 40, well this isn't even You know this is a head high five 40.

2 (56m 17s):
I'm not gonna make the same mistake I did last time where I tried it low thinking I just get away with it anymore. So the going high was more of a safety measure, which is ironic. The, the, the bigger the ramps for me, the safer it is because I have a better landing zone. I have more time in the air to adjust. And even though it looks spectacular and you are six feet in the air, it's just like, no, I need that. I can't skate some eight foot pool. I have no landing zone. I'm too tall. I'm too, I moved too slowly now to do that kind of stuff. So that's why you don't see me like in the park events and stuff like that. You know you're gonna see me on this 14 foot vert ramp because that's my happy place, And. That's where I'm safe.

2 (56m 60s):
But also having my wife there, I just knew I wasn't gonna get hurt in front of her. 'cause I would've been such trouble.

1 (57m 8s):
The the emotional support and pressure is Yeah. Is a real thing. Yeah. And in the best ways not to focus on the bad aspects of the injury because there, there

2 (57m 19s):
Are plenty.

1 (57m 20s):
Yeah. That I recall you and I communicated not long after the, let's say, let's call it what it was the first break. Yeah. And I remember you said to me over text, you said, how long before I'm skateboarding again. Yeah. And I said, skateboarding as in pushing or skateboarding as in what you do on vert, You know. And you said What, I do on vert. And I said, well, it seems you are doing a lot of things. You were doing deliberate cold, deliberate heat pressure. You do a number of things. I mean, you're not haphazard about your career and your body and your health. And we'll get into that a little bit later. Some of the things that you've enjoyed as beneficial for you. But you said, I'm calling it at two months.

1 (58m 0s):
And I said, okay, I believe it. And then I recall that you, was it the Oscars or some other award event where you came out about a week later, you came out there, you walked out. Yeah. This broken femur. And you weren't using any support to walk out. Right. So you clearly ditched whatever support you might've been using, which I think is awesome, by the way. And then pretty soon I was seeing videos of you dropping in. Right. I'm seeing videos of you doing kick turns below coping. I'm seeing videos of you at coping and You know. We have a friend in common, the skate skateboard and generally photographer Mike Blabac. And I remember texting Mike. I was like, Tony's back already. This is, this is superhuman rates of healing and I think it is superhuman rates of healing.

1 (58m 46s):
And you mentioned that you damaged, broke, broke the femur again. So did you allow more rest the second time? What was driving you to, to get back into it so quickly? Well, so the

2 (58m 55s):
First, the first go around, I just didn't listen to any of the professional advice because I thought, well, I've done, I've come this far and I've always been able to push through broken pelvis, broken elbow, knee surgeries. And I've always been, the timeline's always very shortened for me because I just get back out there and I, and I get the healing started. But I also am comfortable with what people think is extremely risky. But in this instance, I wanted to get back out there right away. And not long after the Academy Awards, I was actually walking with a cane at that time. And I ditched the cane just to walk out on stage to present the awards. So that was my big, my big coming out moment.

2 (59m 36s):
But it was kind of forced. And as soon as I walked out the stage, I grabbed my cane and I was hobbling in the backstage, but I was, I was skating kind of a mini ramp and, and I was already struggling because I couldn't put my weight on my front foot because my bone still had not connected to itself. So there's a gap in the bone, but there's a, there's a nail, what they call a nail or You know, big piece of metal that's holding them in place. But I didn't realize how careful I needed to be with that because it was so precarious. And I decided I'm gonna drop in on the mini ramp, like I think I'm ready. And, and it wasn't the drop in on the mini ramp. It was me getting to the top of the mini ramp and stepping off my board.

2 (1h 0m 19s):
That's

1 (1h 0m 19s):
Always that kind of stuff.

2 (1h 0m 20s):
And, but, but I just stepped off my board like I would do any other day. But I didn't think I led with my front foot and I felt the bone move in that moment. I, I really, I felt it, I felt it either twist or get outta place. And I was in total denial for months. 'cause I just said, oh, it just, it just hurts now. Like I You know, I, I got a minor setback and then I finally, eight months into my recovery, seven months into my recovery, I was always in pain. My skating wasn't progressing. I couldn't get speed. And by all measures, I should be back. At least I'd be back to a level that I feel good about.

2 (1h 1m 4s):
And I went and got X-rays and they said, your bone never connected. You have a non-union fracture. And, and, and, and every time I skated, so my bone's like this, every time I skated I was pushing it further away. And so my bone was like this on the last x-ray and And. that was the hard truth.

1 (1h 1m 22s):
So for those listening, just laterally displaced, think about a pipe that's broken in the middle and just one's offset to the other. And,

2 (1h 1m 29s):
And as I keep skating and I, I could force my skate. Like I kinda learned this hack where I can put 75% of my weight on my back foot and 25% of my front foot and do What, I wanted to do, but it wasn't where I thought I'd be. And it just hurt all the time. I mean, it really was like, that was my trigger. 'cause I, I have a pretty high tolerance to pain and it was always her. Like I, I would dread going to the airport knowing I had to walk to a gate. So I knew something was wrong there. I went to a specialist that deals in non-union fractures and he had a very pragmatic, factual approach.

2 (1h 2m 10s):
And it was like, oh, I would do this. I'm taking that nail out. I'm take the other hardware out, put it together, and you cannot move for two months.

1 (1h 2m 17s):
Did you obey that order? I did. Really? Yeah. So what, what is,

2 (1h 2m 21s):
I was chilling. I was not gonna risk that again.

1 (1h 2m 25s):
Did you, and do you prioritize things like sleep, nutrition, just You know generally, and did you emphasize those things while you were recovering from the injury? Yeah,

2 (1h 2m 38s):
I, I, I was very disciplined in my diet, in my schedule and my sleep, surprisingly, I, I was very busy because I do speaking engagements and suddenly my speaking engagements were getting booked left and right. I mean, to the point where I, I did a tour through Europe last summer of speaking engagements. So that was sort of, that was a silver lining I guess to my, my idol time. And I leaned into it, You know I made myself available and, and it You know it's good money. And it was, it was, it's fun to, to interact. And, but all through, all through that, of course in the back of my head I was like, when when can I skate?

2 (1h 3m 22s):
When can I skate? And then when I finally started skating, it was night and day with my leg. I felt like I could lean forward suddenly I was learning tricks every, every session relearning tricks. So I just, I'm just lucky that I got to live in this time of modern medicine.

1 (1h 3m 42s):
Was that two months the longest you've ever gone without skateboarding Vert? Yeah.

2 (1h 3m 47s):
Yeah. Without skating at all.

1 (1h 3m 49s):
Not even just pushing around. No. Yeah. Good for you. For obeying doctor's orders. And also, yeah,

2 (1h 3m 55s):
Finally,

1 (1h 3m 55s):
And also good for you for deciding that your rate of recovery is gonna be whatever it is for you. Because I feel like I'm hearing both things. On the one hand, you listen to the medical professionals, on the other hand, I'm not hearing Oh, You know. I looked at the average rate of recovery from this kind of fracture, this And that it's, it's like, it's as if you decided two things at once. That there are experts who have something to offer me here. I'll follow their advice. Yeah. And yet I'm the expert at myself here. I'm putting myself in your first person. Tony's the expert in Tony, and I'm gonna make sure that I come back a hundred percent. Yeah. Or better.

2 (1h 4m 31s):
Yeah. Not better. But, and I've, and I have come to terms with that because I know that I'm not going to be pushing myself the way that I did before I got hurt anymore. There are some tricks now that are way more difficult just because whatever, it's something changed in my body. And for instance, I can't grab slob. Like I can't, I I can't do it consistently. That used to be my go-to grab could do that anytime over 60 foot gaps, whatever. Like I could just, I just grab, I knew where my board was, I knew that was gonna hold onto my feet. And half the time I try to grab that way. Now I don't reach it or I grab my foot instead and I, I don't know, I can't make the adjustment to fix it.

2 (1h 5m 13s):
And so I've just sort of come to terms with, well that's not the go-to grab anymore. And that's okay. Your kid's, I had a good run. Yeah.

1 (1h 5m 22s):
Your, your kid's pretty, pretty vast. So there's a lot of other things to reach too. Aside from the five 40, which by the way, congratulations. Thank you. Not only is it a five 40, but done at least head high. I've seen it with my own eyes and, and under really great circumstances, your wife there, just the two of you and after and the Trick that broke the femur in the first place. Yeah. Yeah. So congratulations on that. Thank you

Inside Tracker (1h 5m 47s):
. I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge our Sponsor Inside Tracker Inside Tracker is a personalized nutrition platform that analyzes data from your blood and d n a to help you better understand your body and help you meet your health goals. I'm a big believer in getting regular blood work done for the simple reason that many of the factors that impact your immediate and long-term health can only be analyzed from a quality blood test. However, with a lot of blood tests out there, you get information back about blood lipids, about hormones and so on. But you don't know what to do with that information. With Inside Tracker, they have a personalized platform that makes it very easy to understand your data. That is to understand what those lipids, what those hormone levels et cetera mean and Behavioral supplement nutrition and other protocols to adjust those numbers to bring them into the ranges that are ideal for your immediate and long-term health. Inside Tracker's ultimate plan now includes measures of both A P O B and of insulin, which are key indicators of cardiovascular health and energy regulation. If you'd like to try Inside Tracker, you can visit InsideTracker dot com slash Huberman to get 20% off any of inside tracker's plans. Again, that's InsideTracker dot com slash Huberman to get 20% off.

2 (1h 6m 53s):
Are there other things that you, you're thinking You know, can't wait to get back to that. Let's set aside SLA bears for now. Yeah, I I I wanna get my hand plants back the way I used to do 'em inverse. I have yet. Yeah. So Invert like one handed in handstand. I can do them now, but I

1 (1h 7m 13s):
I've seen you do them recently.

2 (1h 7m 14s):
Yeah, but I, but I used, they used to be, my signature was a tucking amber and flopped all the way back and, and I can't get ahold of my board to pull it all the way back like I used to. If I can get that, I'll feel like that's it. That's, that's, that was the last milestone.

1 (1h 7m 32s):
I I'm not here to diagnose and, and treat these specific skateboard Trick isms. But between your, what you said about the s sl bear, And What, you're saying about this seems like there's something about, about getting your, your, your

2 (1h 7m 45s):
Front

1 (1h 7m 46s):
Hand around and pulling it back, back and behind you. So maybe this is like the way that the femur is lining up with your pelvis and maybe some off-ramp something or other. I physical therapy could do

2 (1h 7m 57s):
It. I, I'm actually working with at Scorp, he is a, he's the doctor of physical therapy and he has helped me immensely through my recovery. And when I'm frustrated with this motion, or that's the same grab actually as the mcw. He worked on me before it and was just contorting my body and my leg into these positions that I, I don't really even get to when I'm skating just to prepare me for that. And he did, but that's what it took.

1 (1h 8m 28s):
It's interesting that we're talking about skateboarding and we're also talking about physical therapists. We're talking about nutrition, we're talking about sleep. So growing

2 (1h 8m 37s):
You like none of that, none of that.

1 (1h 8m 39s):
Never imagined any of this. Never. Never. And and I'm chuckling 'cause You know growing up in skateboarding early on for me, not quite as early as you, but pretty early 12 and got out of it and back in. Yes, I can still do a thing or two here and there, but that's not the point. The point is that You know, the nutrition consisted largely of You know fast food or whatever was around cigarettes and beer were sort of the, the energy drinks and, and supplements of, of the times. This is fortunately changed, but there, there was essentially no health promoting tools or aspects to it at all. But that was back then. But then over time it seems it's evolved like now.

1 (1h 9m 21s):
I see, I saw a couple posts from Stevie Williams, like he's in the gym. Sure. I think I saw Danny way early on working with Paul check and doing some balance work, neck work 'cause he had broken his neck surfing Yeah. And things of that sort. So there seems to have been a big shift over the last 15, 20 years where skateboarders are taking good care of their bodies, like other athletes thinking about the resilience of their bodies and also generally taking better care. Like a lot of them opt not to drink and do drugs and all those sorts of things. So I mean, how does it strike you to see the way that Skateboarding's evolved towards the option to be much healthier and treat it like a, like a serious sport where you're a serious athlete? A word that You know even 15 years ago, 20 years ago, if you called a skateboarder an athlete, some people might even be offended by that.

1 (1h 10m 7s):
Oh yeah. People in skateboarding, right?

2 (1h 10m 11s):
Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Well, to answer your question, in the early days, that was part of the, the scene and the culture just 'cause the, the, it was the antithesis to organize team sports and mainstream culture. And so it was just like, yeah, this is what we do. Fuck it. Who caress? Like we drink and we skate and we, and everyone, it was, it was wild west, right? But as I never fell into that deeply because I saw how it affected people's performances and the skating itself was paramount to me, that is What I wanted to focus on. That's What I wanted to be good at. And I saw people partying and partying their skills away. So I had at least that forethought.

2 (1h 10m 54s):
And then as scanning got more established, popular, more of a career option, then people started taking more seriously. Especially competitors. I mean, and, and, but there's such a wide swath of, of what skateboarding is, and it's a big tent, so to say that it's more organized. Yes. It's more organized over here. There's still all these skaters over here, partying, hopping fences, don't care about contests, don't want sponsors. Oh, well,

1 (1h 11m 23s):
Like GX 1000, like those kids that bomb hills in San Francisco. Sure. Like, like,

2 (1h 11m 26s):
But, but that's,

1 (1h 11m 27s):
That's, that's, that's What I love

2 (1h 11m 28s):
About is is the diversity of it all. And, that that's, we're all part of this scene. So I I was a competitor that was, that was my path to success. And so I appreciate that People take it more seriously now, And, that they do have trainer, they have resources. I mean, they have sponsors that will pay for this kind of stuff. There's no such thing. I mean, like at at our biggest skate contest, we were all staying at Stacey Peralta's parents' house the night before. And he would take us out to get spaghetti because he thought carbohydrates was going to give us energy the next day. That was the extent of training in 1983, right?

2 (1h 12m 10s):
But nowadays we're treated like high elite athletes because they are like, if you really look at people that are at the top of their field, people like Nigel Houston, You know What I mean, like the dude is a machine. He is, he is one of the most precise skaters that we've ever seen or precise athletes. This side of Nadia Koi You know. Yes, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm aging myself. But what I'm saying is like, this is, this is takes hardcore dedication, precision, athleticism, and devotion. And so now they have the resources to back that up and to keep it going longer.

2 (1h 12m 53s):
I mean, yeah, I would I be able to do this now, especially after getting hurt without the help of a doctor of physical training? Probably not. I'd do it on some level, but I wouldn't get to where I am now. And so, hey, I think it's awesome. I, I You know, I, I never, I never wanted to covet skateboarding as this thing that no one else can, like a gatekeeper to it. No one else can touch it. I always thought there was something to skateboarding that was magical And that was good for mental health And that was, that was required such, required such passion.

2 (1h 13m 34s):
And I didn't, I never understood why it didn't get bigger through those, those lean years. It was always like, kids, this speaks to kids. Like it's, it's daredevil. It, it's active and it's exciting and you can do it as a group, but you can do it your own way. And I don't know all those things. It took a long time for everyone else to figure it out. They definitely figured it out. I mean, nowadays skaters are the cool kids in school.

1 (1h 13m 56s):
Yeah. It's in the Olympics. Like there was always discussion. Would it be it was an exhibition sport in the Olympics at one point? No, no, no. Oh, I thought it was it for, maybe it had a run at potentially being an exhibition sport.

2 (1h 14m 6s):
There were, there was talk of that. Got

1 (1h 14m 9s):
It.

2 (1h 14m 10s):
Got it. But it never did. And and not that, I mean, at some point, especially in the late nineties, early two thousands, skating was getting appreciated and, and kind of reached that threshold of, of is it mainstream? Well, it's in, it's on McDonald's commercials, so I guess that's pretty mainstream. And so we already had come of age and it was like, we don't need the Olympics. We're already more popular than a lot of Olympic sports, right? So why do we need their validation? And then at some point it became like the, the, the power dynamic shifted and it was like, oh, they need our cool factor. We don't need their validation.

2 (1h 14m 51s):
And it was like, yeah, okay, you guys want it? Sure, go ahead, but hold the events, hold the qualifiers. We'll participate, but we don't need this.

1 (1h 15m 3s):
Well you've been an amazing ambassador for the sport that's driven so much of that wider acceptance and progression and invitation into different domains. One of the things that I definitely wanna talk about is the video game, right? Because I think that the video game changed a lot of things for the general public in terms of their perception of skateboarding. I mean, what it allowed, of course is this is obvious, but it allowed kids that weren't going to You know bang up their shins or walk in with a broken wrist or You know all skinned up to, to do incredible tricks, but in silico on a screen, right? And to, and pretend that they are the, the pro skateboarder.

1 (1h 15m 45s):
That's essentially what, what video games are about. And yet when you can see something just like you can imagine it in a dream or while you're falling asleep and you can see something and and hear in air quotes, do something in a video game, it also is going to inspire a number of kids to go outside and grab a real skateboard and try that or try something like that. So clearly the video game was a catalyst for What I consider now the, the wide acceptance of skateboarding as a sport in all its various forms. Could you just talk for a little bit about the genesis of the video game? Were you into video games prior to the video game? Yes. Were you into technology generally? And And What sort of motivated the interest in the video game because it certainly has changed the face of actual skateboarding and the perception of skateboarding.

2 (1h 16m 33s):
Well, I've, I've been into video games since the get go. I mean, I was a kid, You know, playing Pong, Pacman, missile command, Bert, you name it. And then getting the home systems and television Super n e s Commodore 64. Sega. Sega. Yeah. But, but I, and I always loved technology. So when I, when I finally started making money in the eighties, my first kind of big purchase in terms of that, in, in terms of electronics was Commodore Omega, which was considered one of the highest end home computers You know alongside Mac, but, but more graphic oriented and, and more game oriented.

2 (1h 17m 18s):
And so I was always into that idea that you could do this kind of stuff at home, not just in arcades. And then I got a, I got a call from a PC programmer that wanted to pitch a skate game and had a, a crude engine of a skater that would cruise around, go in bowls and stuff like that. And it was all keyboard controlled. It was clunky, but it was something. And the last thing that we had as skating was seven 20 in the arcade, or skate or die for home systems for Commodore six four. That was like the last thing that had happened for skateboarding in video games. And so I went with him.

2 (1h 17m 58s):
I was excited to go, like I got to, we got to go to Nintendo and pitch it. We went to Midway You know, we went to all these different console and software manufacturers and we're just told that this is a bad idea. Skateboarding's not popular home video games are barely a thing. Why would anyone want to buy a video game about skateboarding? Someone said those exact words to me at Midway. And so he got frustrated and he needed to find a job. And I was, I was just kind of free floating. So I said, okay. And he goes, well, I'm, I'm gonna, I'm not gonna do this, but I feel like you've established yourself at least in the video game world industry, that you're interested in doing something.

2 (1h 18m 43s):
So maybe if someone does something, they'll call you. And I was like, yeah, right. Sure. Sure enough, like a year later, Activision called me and they said, Hey, we heard you wanna do a video game. I said, well, yes, I would love to work on a video game. I'm not a programmer or anything. They said, we have something we're working on, I'd like to show it to you. And so I went up to Activision, they were working on a skate game, but it was based on an engine of a game that was already released called Apocalypse starring Bruce Willis. So the first version of my game was Bruce Willis on a skateboard with a gun strap to his back in a desert wasteland doing cake flips.

2 (1h 19m 23s):
And it was awesome. It was, it was truly like, I picked it up and I got past that visual and then I started playing it and, and it was intuitive. It, the motion felt right, the engine was right. And I was like, this is, this is the baseline of something special. I didn't think it was gonna be some big hit. I just thought this is, this is gonna be appreciated by skateboarders. And. that was my goal. The entire development process, which was about a year and a half after I signed on, we, through that year and a half, we were going back and forth with, they would, they would, FedEx me builds on CDs. I had a modified PlayStation. I would play it, make notes, and then I thought, man, skater's gonna dig this And.

2 (1h 20m 5s):
that was it. And skating wasn't even that popular. It was coming to You know it was starting to get some traction.

1 (1h 20m 12s):
What year was this

2 (1h 20m 14s):
Again? Like 98. So it was like X Games were starting to come into the fold. People were taking note of what skateboarding had become at that point. And then I thought, this is gonna be cool. Skater's gonna like it. And then not long before the release, they called me and they said, Hey, we wanna, we wanna offer you a buyout of future royalties for this game. 'cause I think You know there's, I think people are gonna like it. And I was like, what does that mean? They go, we will give you half a million dollars. And then you don't get royalties going forward. But you get that money up front. And at that time in my life, like to hear someone say half a million dollars seriously sounded like a half a billion dollars.

2 (1h 20m 57s):
Like no one had ever talked about numbers that big to me.

1 (1h 21m 1s):
Well also 98 was a little bit of a, of a quiet time for vert skateboarding too, right? Sure, yeah.

2 (1h 21m 6s):
It was all about skateboarding Street in general. Street Skateboarding. Skateboarding. But yeah, for for, yeah, luckily vert skating still was a thing because of inline skating, because inline skating was huge, right. Late nineties. And they were all vert. And so we as skaters got to sort of ride those coattails. 'cause it was like, Hey, there are vert ramps 'cause everyone's rollerblading.

1 (1h 21m 29s):
I forgot about that,

2 (1h 21m 30s):
That that did like, and I have honestly, like I was the special guest at a couple of inline rollerblade shows where it was like, this is the team Rollerblade live and special guest, Tony Hawk, the skateboarder. And I was like, Hey, all right, I'm dropping in. But it paid the bills. Yeah. So to answer to like, to to from what you're saying, vert skating was, it was a thing at least established in the X Games, which was something and enough for us to make a living. So when they offered me this money, I actually was in a pretty good place in terms of my, I don't know, my options, my, my trajectory.

2 (1h 22m 13s):
And I felt like, and I, I had just bought a new home and I thought, I'm gonna take a chance and just see what happens. And, that was the best financial decision I ever made.

1 (1h 22m 26s):
Took the equity.

2 (1h 22m 27s):
Yeah, I just let it ride. I was like, no, I wanna see what happens with this. And as soon as the game was released, it was getting stellar Reviews. And then I remember like the very next week after it was released, never stopped saying, saying, okay, we're working on number two. What do you wanna do? I was like, what do you mean? Well yeah, we're doing sequel with what? Awesome. And then we ended up doing like 10.

1 (1h 22m 56s):
Amazing,

2 (1h 22m 56s):
Crazy

1 (1h 22m 56s):
Amazing. I'm thinking about your decision to not take the cash and to see how it would go. I'm thinking about your decision to buy a car at 16 and yet as a consequence get pulled over 'cause you looked younger. I'm thinking about the time when through the graciousness of your parents who took me in because I had no money to get back up to Northern California and they couldn't get ahold of my mom. They took me to your home, but then they took me to where you were living the next day, which was in Fallbrook. You don't remember this, but I do. And I know you've heard this story before, so forgive me because most people listening haven't. But I remember getting driven up to Fallbrook. You had the ramps in your backyard. I walked in, got introduced to you.

1 (1h 23m 37s):
You were very gracious, said hello, what's up? Said feel free to push around on the ramps outside. It was the mini, it was a spine ramp. Yeah. Yeah. Two ramps. Back to back folks. Spine, sorry. Nomenclature. I think Ray Underhill was there.

2 (1h 23m 51s):
Yeah, he lived there

1 (1h 23m 51s):
For a while. Yeah. And as I recall, you had pretty vast music collection and we'll talk about music, but it also seemed You know there was a couple cars in the driveway and whatnot. But it's clear to me based on a number of things, And, that interaction and What I observed there. That either you had someone in your ear, either your dad or your mom or both, or maybe it had been Stacy or maybe it was somebody else who was advising you to make very good financial decisions. Like not spend all your money or continue to spend all your money to invest in things You know. Or maybe it was just instilled in you at a young age.

1 (1h 24m 31s):
Who knows? I'm asking because I think so many people burn their early success. You know what represents a lot of wealth for them early on. They burn that or they start making just bad decisions. You explained before why you tended to avoid drugs and alcohol and certainly any severe relationship to drugs or alcohol that would keep you from progressing and skateboarding. But You know the ability to make really good decisions as a young famous athlete, right, is more rare than it is common even when people have coaches. So I'm curious, You know, where did that shrewdness And that prudence come from? And was Frank, your dad and maybe Nancy also You know, advising you all along like, Hey, You know, think smart.

1 (1h 25m 15s):
Be smart. Because clearly you've made some, some very smart decisions.

2 (1h 25m 21s):
He was definitely a guide in it. He, he was the first one who said, you should probably buy real estate. I was 17, so I didn't even know that was possible. But he co-signed and made it possible. But then after that I ended up buying that home that you went to and it was four acre property. And we built these ramps on it. And, that was amazing. And definitely helped propel my skating to a different level than I ever imagined. But at some point that was just a drain. And it was a drain financially. And I was living beyond my means and my income kept dropping. 'cause we're talking about not long after that was 91, 92, the slowest days of, of skating.

2 (1h 26m 5s):
And I've got this giant mortgage and I've got this property and these ramps that I can't afford to upkeep. I can barely afford my water bill at one point. You know. And so what you saw might've s seemed stable, but behind the scenes it was, it was starting to unravel.

1 (1h 26m 22s):
Birdhouse hadn't been started.

2 (1h 26m 23s):
Birdhouse was started in 92. And when I started Birdhouse, I took the equity from that house to start it. 'cause I, I didn't, I burned through my savings from trying to keep this place going. So I took a second mortgage out on that house. Right. I took my equity out, started Birdhouse, sold the house for What I had taken out and then moved to my original place that I had when I was in High School. And just Pulled back on expenses. I think that was the, that was when I really became shrewd because I had to, I had a, I had a first child, I had an income that was very uncertain, very fluctuating.

2 (1h 27m 7s):
And I was just eating Taco Bell and Top Ramen and peanut butter jelly sandwiches and, and not spending anything and, and taking every job, like the most random demo requests or we want you to be a consultant on this commercial because I'm too old. I'm 24. I'm too old to be the guy skating 'cause it has to be youth, right. But they're like, well we wanna see what's possible. So can you come up the day before and show us the ropes? And so I would be the stunt skater that's filling in to, to show them the angles and stuff. And then they would go hire Chet Thomas as the young kid. And then I would stand around. I was getting paid. I didn't care.

1 (1h 27m 47s):
I think I remember those commercials. It was a serial commercial or something like that.

2 (1h 27m 52s):
The serial commercial was Chris Miller Frosted Flakes. Right. And I was Tony and Tiger

1 (1h 27m 58s):
Suit. So I was wearing a skin suit, saw skin suit suit, SoCal guys. You chat Chris? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I, throughout the wor Birdhouse, which is your company. But without telling people what is Skateboard company. Yeah, I remember Willie Santos was early on. Yeah. I remember his super nice kid used to see him at the contest. I remember thinking, whoa, Tony Hawk has his own company for skateboarders. That was

2 (1h 28m 20s):
Revolutionary. I, we had a team, You know, like Willie Willie was a maestro. Jeremy Klein, legendary street pioneer, Steve Berra who's kind of a, we called it a t v but Street and Vert. We had Ocean Howell who was like our number one amateur. We had Andrew Reynolds, Matt Beach. We had a team. Like it was full on.

1 (1h 28m 45s):
Was it fun to move from rider to also rider but team manager owner? Was

2 (1h 28m 52s):
It fun? It just, it was just necessary. I can't say it was fun. I mean, yeah, it was, it was fun. 'cause we were still just Kind of reckless and driving You know, six of us in a van driving to skate shops across the country and begging 'em for 300 bucks so that we could get gas and food in a hotel room and get on our way. I don't know, it just, it it, but for me it just felt like a necessity to keep to, to, that was What I had to do to make a brand happen. And so I was willing to do it and, but it was exhausting. Yeah. 'cause I had to be the, I had to be the, the coach and the tour manager and the skater You know I was putting myself out there on like the, the worst conditions and just rolling my ankle left and right.

2 (1h 29m 47s):
And it was, and it was all street and it was just wasn't my thing. It was, it was hard. But I just, I I loved it. I made it happen.

1 (1h 29m 54s):
In my mind. I'm thinking you had to be Tony Hawk the skateboarder. Frank Hawk the organizer. Yeah. And Stacy Peralta the Yeah. 'cause Stacy had been a pro skateboarder. I still think of him as a skateboarder. Yeah. Even though he's a filmmaker. of course. Right. Skateboarder. Just like I still think of Spike Jones as a skateboarder, B M X or filmmaker. Seems like you had to integrate all of those. And I mentioned that because I am curious, I think a lot of people are probably curious. Are you the type of person to like sit back in a chair at night and think like, okay, like how am gonna do this? I mean, are you contemplative or is it really, you just sort identify what needs to be done this year and over the next three years and You know, set your milestones kinda short in, I guess

2 (1h 30m 34s):
Mean now or back then? Back then. Oh no, everything was just in the moment. We gotta get here. We gotta get to Dallas by tomorrow. It's like, as soon as this demo's over, get in the van, we're going, we gotta get a hotel room. You know. It was just stuff like that. It was, it was very much. But, but I, I, I respected, I think I learned to respect punctuality because I traveled with plenty of skaters that were not and didn't care and show up late. Everyone's like, dude. And like, I don't know these guys. And then when I was in charge, it was like, we're gonna be on time 'cause we have to respect other people's time.

2 (1h 31m 15s):
And we said we're gonna be here at three o'clock. We're gonna be here at three o'clock. And that's not easy with a skate crew.

1 (1h 31m 23s):
No. Mike Blabac, who as You know is integral to the Hebrew and Lab podcast. I talk about that. We've got some other guys that came over from DC to as filmers and editors for us. And You know they're so punctual and they're so on it. And I know as you showed up early today, right, right on time or early by early by five minutes, And, that is a distinguishing factor I think in any occupation, but especially in skateboarding where there's this kind of looseness. Sure. And so if you do show up on time really means a lot the Professionalism that You know was instilled in you. It's, it's clear that different places where that's showing up. Mentioned the shrewdness about the business decisions.

1 (1h 32m 4s):
I'm curious about another aspect of that, which is maybe a little more cryptic, which is You know whether or not it was the CD collection that I saw or your mention of the car, your interest in video games. It seems that one thing that you've done that a lot of guys that I knew, 'cause back then, by the way, it was mostly guys now as we said, there were women doing it too. Women and girls. It seems like you have a lot of other Hobbies and interests, music and et cetera. But that we never heard about you getting like distracted or pulled down those lines. Like it, we didn't hear about you going and surfing and getting hurt, hurt surfing so that you couldn't skate or getting really into motorcycles or race racing cars.

1 (1h 32m 44s):
Right. You know, some people went hard, left outta skateboarding into that like Ken block the late great Ken Block, but that became his main thing. Seems like you, you knew that skateboarding was the main mainframe and stayed with that. And yet you have a lot of other interests.

2 (1h 32m 60s):
Yeah, I think I I, well with other sports, especially like motocross, I, I have this huge respect for motocross. I think it's super exciting. I would love to do it. And I know that I would not escape unscathed. Like I would definitely want to learn the tricks, do whips and flips and whatever. And I'm gonna get hurt. And I, I don't wanna risk my skate career for that. So I I, I purposely pulled away from that type of thing. The last knee surgery I had is because I overshot a jump in mammoth on my snowboard. So that was a lesson. I was like, don't, what are you doing

1 (1h 33m 40s):
Just cruise? Why?

2 (1h 33m 41s):
Yeah. Stay on the ground Right. Hit the powder. Right. You know Free ride with your Bross because I learned my lesson and so, so yeah, you're right. But at the same time, like I still, I still love going surfing and snowboarding. I don't do 'em as much obviously, but, but those were part of, of What I did all growing up. And they're important to me. I did You know do a couple of celebrity car races like a NASCAR race. And I totaled a car in the Long Beach Grand Prix. 'cause this dude ran me into the wall and it was like, well that was fun. But I'm not, I I don't, I don't have the bandwidth to get that serious about it.

1 (1h 34m 22s):
And now you have a family of course too, so

2 (1h 34m 24s):
Of course. Yeah. I mean and, and those things as fun as they are and as as, I don't know, as as sort of auxiliary as as they are, they require a lot of time. I mean, just for instance, that Long Beach Grand Prix, they want you to go stay in Palmdale for like a week and a half and train and, and figure out how to truly know how to drive and be safe. And it's like, I don't, I ain't got time for that.

1 (1h 34m 50s):
Yeah, that's time. You're not skateboarding

2 (1h 34m 52s):
Or with your family. Right?

1 (1h 34m 54s):
Yeah.

2 (1h 34m 54s):
Right.

1 (1h 34m 55s):
No, I feel the same way. If I get pulled away from reading papers and prepping podcasts and reading the latest research and thinking about experiments we could do, then I, for more than a couple of days, I start feeling the itch. I have a feeling this stuff is programmed into one's nervous system after a while. Like you've been skateboarding for so long that if you go a few days, it probably just your system is is Oh, I get, it's like depriving of water

2 (1h 35m 16s):
Or something like that. Yeah, for sure. I mean, well, just for instance, our ramp is being torn down on Sunday. Today is Friday. Our ramp is being torn down on Sunday at 10:00 AM to be moved to Salt Lake City for our big vert event. I'm going there at eight 30 so I can get a session before it gets torn down. I love it on Father's Day. That's my Father's Day. I'm going to work at 8:30 AM on Sunday.

1 (1h 35m 43s):
I love it. Speaking of family and lineage, tell us about your kids. You've got some talented skateboarders in your family besides yourself. I

2 (1h 35m 53s):
Do. Well, I have four of my own and I have two step kids and they all skate. My daughter not so much anymore, but all the boys, five boys are all really into it. My oldest son is the most, he's the most prominent because he turned pro and has, I mean, You know has his own following, has a name for himself. Ri and he's 30.

1 (1h 36m 20s):
Yeah. He kills it on street. He's a big street skateboarder. He

2 (1h 36m 24s):
Does. Yeah. But they You know they're, they're all good. They're all good skaters in their own ways. And it's so fun. I mean, I, I I didn't, of course they're surrounded by it their whole life. Especially ri 'cause when he was young, I, I didn't really have the means to have childcare or whatever, so I just had to take him with me on tourism and whatnot. So he was always around it. So he got good at it by default, but at some point started to shy away from it because he felt the, the pressure and my shadow. And it was like, I don't, this isn't fun. I don't, people expect me to be super good or I have to do this stuff. And so he went, shied away from it, but then found a bunch of his friends in High School.

2 (1h 37m 5s):
They, they loved skating. He's still good at it. So he, that he found his crew and they've all found their crews completely independent of me. And so when we go on vacation, for instance, we, we were, last year we were in, or two years ago, we were on the big on Hawaii. They wanna go to Skateparks. I don't wanna go to Skateparks. I'm on vacation.

1 (1h 37m 28s):
It's also little harsh stuff. It's a great way to get hurt. Right? What's that? of course over in Hawaii. of course. Yeah. It's all weather worn.

2 (1h 37m 33s):
Oh yeah. And it's not even my scene. But, but then, so I go, I'm, I'm so, I'm their chauffeur and I'm their filmer.

1 (1h 37m 39s):
I love it.

2 (1h 37m 40s):
That's my vacation. But, but because they all love it so much. You know, What I mean, and it just, it's so cool. Like, I mean, how could I ever ask for more? It's amazing.

1 (1h 37m 50s):
Let's talk about Frank and Nancy a little bit, just 'cause I have this kind of odd connection to your family through those, it was really two or three day interaction change, changed my life forever. Meeting you was spectacular as a young skateboarding kid, but also just the idea that someone would literally take me into their home. I mean, they had every reason to not trust me. First of all, I was hanging out with Billy Waldman. Now explanation needed that people who knew Billy, I hope he's doing well. I haven't heard anything about him, but I hope he is doing well. But we were wild. But he basically took me into your home. He and Nancy took me in You know, fed us or fed me. I had another friend with me and You know, I just have to say I, as you're describing your family, I can only imagine what it must've been like for Frank and Nancy to see you have your kids.

1 (1h 38m 37s):
Did they get to live long enough to see that Riley and Dad, your other kids were

2 (1h 38m 43s):
Skateboarders? My dad, my dad met Riley, but my dad passed away when Riley was two. Okay. So he's the only one of my kids that, that he met. Yeah. My older sibling had kids, so he met two of his other grandkids besides Riley. My mom got to see some of Riley's success, but she suffered from Alzheimer's dementia. And so things slipped away. But I I, I think that my dad would not believe that skateboarding is in the Olympics.

2 (1h 39m 25s):
To him, that's, that is the top of the mountain because he was really into other sports. He loved sports, he loved the Olympics. He loved, he loved watching football, he loved watching baseball. He loved when the Olympics were on. He just, he loved the, the competition element and the, and the hype of it. And, and I think there was part of him that felt like, why isn't skateboarding in this You know? But he knew that there were so many hurdles to get through and so much more acceptance that needed to happen. And I don't think he imagined it would ever happen.

1 (1h 39m 56s):
Yeah. He was a special guy. I can still hear his voice. Yeah. He was a very large guy too. I don't know if he, I was just smaller then. I definitely was smaller than Oh yeah. No,

2 (1h 40m 3s):
I mean he, he

1 (1h 40m 4s):
Had like a big Yeah. Presence. And, and I know I've told you this many times before. This is actually how we got reconnected. I sent you a direct message and said, Hey, I met your parents. In fact, they took me into your home and I'm telling the truth and you'll know I'm telling the truth because they took me to dinner and they ordered black coffee after dinner. Yeah. And You know, for years I would order black coffee after dinner. You know. It's, as a kid, you're just so impressionable. These really nice people took me in. Yeah. I was like, wow, this is what a really healthy family looks like. I, I'm grateful to have loving parents. Always did. But I didn't have the healthy family structure. So for me it was like, oh my goodness, these people drink black coffee after dinner. This must be what healthy families do. So by the way, folks don't drink caffeine within eight hours of going to sleep.

1 (1h 40m 45s):
But wait,

2 (1h 40m 46s):
I still do that.

1 (1h 40m 47s):
But well, you, it doesn't seem to be holding you back individualized. But yeah, it's spectacular that this lineage of You know Frank to you and, and I I mentioned and Nancy, because it seems like while she might not have been at the contest and run around setting up tables and doing all that, like she clearly was supportive as well. Oh,

2 (1h 41m 6s):
Oh. She was at a lot of the events too. I mean, they needed all hands on deck when it started getting big and no one was taking salaries. You know, that's the thing is that people thought like, oh, your dad's like cashing on ski. He never took up money for any of that. And he took so much shit. You know, What I mean. He just, he just loved it.

1 (1h 41m 23s):
It was for you.

2 (1h 41m 24s):
It, well, and, but also

1 (1h 41m 25s):
I have to imagine he wouldn't have been there.

2 (1h 41m 26s):
It, it was for me and it was also for the misfits that I surrounded myself with. And the, even though he was, he was brash and he was like a You know. He was, I don't know what's the word? He, he was foreboding and, and intimidating and whatever else. He did it for all those kids that were kind of lost like you, I mean, he really like, he, he loved that it brought them together, that it gave them a sense of self. It gave them a sense of purpose. He saw that because he, he was that he, he really had a rough Childhood and he did everything he could through his adult life to make up for it with his own kids and with the kids that they surround him themselves with.

2 (1h 42m 7s):
So that's, that's what he loved about it. of course, he loved seeing me thrive too, but he loved that he created this safe space and this this sense of community. And so my mom, my mom was, that was her thing, was getting people together, gatherings, You know, oh, we should all get together. Like even, even my siblings and I, as much as we want to emulate our parents, we don't do it as much as they did. And we regret that.

1 (1h 42m 35s):
Well, there's still time.

2 (1h 42m 37s):
No, we, I mean we do, but it's tricky. We're all in different areas.

1 (1h 42m 41s):
Sure. Yeah. The, the person that comes to mind when I think about your dad, I'm forgetting the movie, but there's this one Clin Eastwood movie where he lives in a neighborhood where, where I think it's a, a bunch of young Hmong, oh, is it gangsters?

2 (1h 42m 54s):
El Camino.

1 (1h 42m 55s):
El Camino, yeah. And I just remember like the, there's that scene of like Clint coming out on his porch and just standing really upright. Yeah. Like everything in his front is front lawn is everything's super manicured. Yeah. And just standing there like this immense presence And that, that's how I remember Frank Hawk.

2 (1h 43m 9s):
Yeah. But he was a total softie. That's the thing. That's, that's the You know. There there was a, it was, it was all a front.

1 (1h 43m 18s):
Well he was certainly very gracious. You

2 (1h 43m 20s):
Mean Right? Like, like you You know you, you got, you got to see that side of him where it's just like, oh yeah, come on. We'll, we'll take you out. You wanna go see Tony's place? Let's go. Like, that's not some hard ass.

1 (1h 43m 32s):
Well, there's a tail end of the story too, where he actually called my mom. And I think there may have been a statement or two about, hey, this kid's 14, like he can't be in Linda Vista Boys Club taking the bus back to Lancaster, et cetera, et cetera. Yeah. It may have been some discussion like that. But then they also paid for me to go home Oh yeah, they flew me home. Yeah. So I think I owe you a couple hundred bucks for a Southwest flight or whatever airline it was. Well, it's, it's fun and I think important to reminisce about these people because they aren't just your parents, but they, they've done so much. And through you You know. I, I really think that emotions and stories are really like the equivalent of energy in humans. You know when people talk about energy because that gets carried forward.

1 (1h 44m 16s):
Speaking of which, we share a common love of some particular music. Are you somebody who listens to music to sort of, to inspire you to get amped up to go skateboard? It's music an important part of your life. Yeah.

2 (1h 44m 29s):
Let's put it this way. I had a, I had a playlist for my five 40 the other day.

1 (1h 44m 36s):
Okay.

2 (1h 44m 36s):
Fine. Tuned to that. Trick And What would get me motivated and hyped to, to do it.

1 (1h 44m 42s):
You don't have to share with us what's on the playlist unless you, you choose to. Oh man. But was it high energy? Low energy.

2 (1h 44m 48s):
High energy? Well, and, and some meaningful songs like New Order Ceremony and let's see, nine-Ish Nails Getting Smaller because that was a song we used in one of our big skate tours. And it was one of the most high energy sections of the, of the show. Gosh. They were So, I, I, I can't go through all of 'em. I forget Gang of Four. Wait, it's Gang of Four is shit. I forgot. What is it? Oh, I find that Essence Rare Fires Up. So I had, I had like 10 that were just gonna, if any of those played, it's, I'm gonna make it.

2 (1h 45m 32s):
And, and I knew that it was about an hour and a half. And that's as long as I'm gonna try it before I'm too tired. So

1 (1h 45m 40s):
You're listening in The Warehouse or you're listening in the, in the

2 (1h 45m 44s):
Warehouse on Random. And then the song that I made it to was off of that Prodigy album. Fat Of the Lamb. And it's called Climatize. It's instrumental. I used it for a Birdhouse edit when 4 1 1 was the thing,

1 (1h 45m 58s):
4 1 1 were these little like video Newsletter type things. Yeah. Anyway, so

2 (1h 46m 4s):
When that song came on, I, I was feeling it. I made it

1 (1h 46m 9s):
Fantastic. I love this because You know the neuroscientist in me is immediately gonna say, You know we have this brain that loves to take in information and discard other information. But Paired Association is so strong. Yeah. And when you couple that with some sense of Reward, like the making of the burial below, coping as a, as as early in life, or making the five 40 as as a comeback to the You know the injury after the injury. I mean

2 (1h 46m 35s):
It was almost like I I loved all that music, but I was indoctrinated by it through the Skateparks because that was the soundtrack to this game. It was, it was punk music. It was Sex Pistols and, and 9 9, 9 and Black Flag. And Devo and X and Buzzcocks and You know that that was, that's What I kept hearing. And that's What I associate with my best of times.

1 (1h 46m 58s):
Yeah. It's in your nervous system. Yeah. Yeah. There's a few voices. You know Rancid and Tim Armstrong. And, and the other Operation

2 (1h 47m 7s):
Ivy.

1 (1h 47m 8s):
Operation Ivy tends

2 (1h 47m 8s):
Yeah. Sound system. Sound system was on that playlist. Was on the five 40 playlist.

1 (1h 47m 12s):
All right. You know. Yep. Tim will be so happy to hear that. And Matt Freeman, the bass player and Jesse Michaels is now playing again with Tim, right? The lead singer of Operation Ivy. Yeah.

2 (1h 47m 20s):
With their new, their new gig. What's it called?

1 (1h 47m 22s):
They had a name and then they, they they changed it. Oh, okay. Initially it was, well I don't wanna say 'cause they changed it for a reason's,

2 (1h 47m 31s):
But Alright. But we know, anyway, we know they're making new music.

1 (1h 47m 33s):
Yeah. Which is amazing. Yeah. Operation Ivy is incredible. My yearbook photo for I think two years running was the cover of Operation Ivy. 'cause I didn't show up for the yearbook photo. Speaking of which, did you show up for your yearbook photos or did you graduate High School.

2 (1h 47m 46s):
I graduated High School but I didn't go to any of the events, prom or any of the auxiliary. I didn't know. I mean, I was, I was an outcast. Like I was not, even though I had success in skating, skating wasn't cool. And I was not homies with anyone at school except for two other skaters. And we felt very ostracized. So, nah. Yeah, I did show up for the graduation 'cause 'cause my mom and dad wanted to see it.

1 (1h 48m 15s):
Yeah, likewise. I graduated. But I could tell you more about the curbs in the parking lot of my High School than I could about anything that happened in the classroom.

2 (1h 48m 20s):
Oh man. I broke so many sprinkler heads because the sprinkler heads were right next to the curb and there was a double-sided curb. And so if you board slide, 'cause I'd go there early and board slide and then I'd just like lean too far in and break the sprinkler head and never got caught. What

1 (1h 48m 33s):
High School?

2 (1h 48m 34s):
Well, I went to a couple, I went to s High School originally, then I went to Santo High School, which is in North County. And then I ended up at Torry Pines. I got so bullied at Sandy Guido that I requested to be transferred because I, I couldn't go, I couldn't survive there as a skater. I would have to hide my skateboard in the bushes before class and then go find it after school so that people wouldn't target me. Wow.

1 (1h 49m 1s):
The eighties were rough. It was like a jo It was like a John Hughes film.

2 (1h 49m 5s):
Well, for sure. It, it was so divided. It was jocks versus nerds and then skaters were like not even considered in that realm because they're just going to get, they're gonna get hammered. 'cause there were so few of us.

1 (1h 49m 17s):
Well, things have changed and not only have things have changed such that skateboarding is far more popular and respected and You know at least one mark of that is in the Olympics. Although there are other marks of respect certainly. But a huge Evolution that I've observed is when I was skateboarding as a 14 year old and You know into my close to my twenties. And then took some time off for sure. Hardly any girls, hardly any women. There were a few like Kara Beth Burnside, they got teased, ridiculed. It was hard on them. Super hard. Yeah. Super hard now largely through Instagram, but some other channels as well.

1 (1h 49m 58s):
You can see this young girl Reese on Vert skateboarding better than a lot of grown men who have been skateboarding for decades. Oh yeah. Decades. I mean, and then there are a number of other ones in the in street skateboarding and also taking really hard slams. Yeah, yeah. You know. So this, this is a complete revision of the recent history of skateboarding. Oh, absolutely. So thought on that and on Reese, and there are a few others. Was it, is it Lizzie who Lizzie Monte took a really bad fall. Yeah. That was filmed,

2 (1h 50m 31s):
Broke their, broke the neck off her femur. Yeah. Yeah.

1 (1h 50m 34s):
These are tough ladies. Yeah, yeah,

2 (1h 50m 36s):
Yeah. I mean,

1 (1h 50m 36s):
For doing it and for coming back, Lizzie,

2 (1h 50m 38s):
Lizzie did the loop. She did the full 360 loop First woman to ever do it.

1 (1h 50m 44s):
So what do you think changed like that, that paved the way? Is it just a You know, a critical mass of Females doing it? Is it that You know Sky brown You know you? Well,

2 (1h 50m 55s):
For sure, for sure. There were, there were the pioneers, people like Care Beth Burnside and there's so many others. Patty Hoffman was one of the, one of the first vert skaters too, who were, they planted the seed. And, and then there were other women that took Inspiration. Like, oh, girls can do this. Even though they're largely outnumbered and they get hassled for sure. And then through the street era, people like Alyssa Steamer who, who paved the way for legit street skating. But then through the years, it, it started to become more common, more accepted.

2 (1h 51m 38s):
Which is dumb to say 'cause it has always been, it should have always been accepted. But the thing that that really tipped the scale was when everything was leading up to the Olympics, there had to be equal divisions in equal disciplines for men and women. And suddenly there was no question of, should we have a, should we have a women's event? Like no, we have to have a women's event because that's how we, that's the road to qualifying for this. The Olympic stage and Vance Park series. To their credit, they were holding events simultaneously. Not that we're Olympic qualifiers, but just their own. And they said, these events are equal across the board. Equal prize money, equal attention.

2 (1h 52m 19s):
I mean, it was just like that, that was just matter of fact. And that shifted a lot. It really did. And now if you go to a Skatepark, you see plenty of women there.

1 (1h 52m 29s):
Yeah. It's awesome.

2 (1h 52m 31s):
And like literal women, like Moms You know there's, there are older women that are learning how to skate. It's awesome.

1 (1h 52m 40s):
Not that it matters so much, but does anyone claim to be the first female? Do five 40 on Vert? Is that sort of a known thing?

2 (1h 52m 47s):
That would be Lindsay Adams

1 (1h 52m 51s):
Fantastic.

2 (1h 52m 51s):
And she did that. I'll tell you how she did that. She was trying it. So she's trying, she's trying to make Twist. She's married to Travis Pastrana. It's like the You know, it's like the, the elite action sports couple. And she was trying 'em, she was, she was getting pretty close. And then we did a big exhibition in Paris at the Grand Palle on behalf of Quicksilver. It was a huge event. They put a half pipe up and we did this giant show. There were thousands of people there. And it was very much unspoken but expected that I was gonna do a 900 at this event.

2 (1h 53m 37s):
I think it was, I wanna say it was 2010 maybe and or no, like 2009. And, and, and the organizers were kinda like, okay, so we're gonna do this. And then You know at some point you do a 900. And I was like, I, I can't guarantee that ever. Like, every time I've ever made it, it's been pretty spontaneous. I've You know I've set out to do it and not, I've come up short. I can't guarantee it. I'll try, I'll try. And they, they're like, yeah, yeah. Okay. And so I knew the whole time that we're skating, I was like, okay, everyone's expecting this. So I kind of went through the motions of, of doing my exhibition tricks, You know, playing the hits.

2 (1h 54m 18s):
And then started trying nine hundreds. And at the same time, Lindsay started trying five forties. 'cause she was feeling that energy. And so it was this sort of, not battle, but definitely we were, we were trading hits. It was like, all right, here goes Tony. And then, oh, you missed it. And you goes, Lindsay, oh, she missed it. And then I, she almost made one like was riding down You know. And, and then fell at the flat bottom. And it was like, oh. And then I made 900 And. that was kind of the showstopper because like, that's what they expected. And everyone's going crazy and whatever.

2 (1h 54m 59s):
People are coming down off the ramp, knee sliding down and we're saying goodbye to the crowd. And I look up and Lindsay puts her tail out. There's still people standing on the ramp and she puts her tail out. And I was like, I think Lindsay wants to try it again. Here we go. I'm on the mic now. I she made it.

1 (1h 55m 16s):
Love it.

2 (1h 55m 17s):
She stole the show. Like without question. It was huge. You can look it up on, on YouTube, like it's there. Lindsay Adams first, first five 40. It was awesome. And then she made it and we all grabbed her and put her on her shoulders.

1 (1h 55m 33s):
That is awesome. It was

2 (1h 55m 35s):
Pretty cool. That

1 (1h 55m 35s):
Is awesome. 'cause these things are like the four minute mile as a barrier. Then people break that barrier. Sure. And then other people break that barrier. Sure. It's, I mean I, I've watched enough of skateboarding in recent years to You know, like the sky brown thing. You know, like, she's phenomenal and actually saw her family out to dinner here in Los Angeles and with her brother and her folks are really gracious, really nice. And there again, You know parents going to the Skatepark. After all, she's couldn't drive herself. I think she's at that time shift. She's probably like nine. You know. That's

2 (1h 56m 4s):
Probably one of the biggest shifts too, is that parents encourage their kids to skate. Now could you imagine that when we were young? Never.

1 (1h 56m 13s):
No. There were so many factors telling us not to, which just made us want to do it more. Sure. But

2 (1h 56m 18s):
Now, now kids are like, parents are pushing them into it. Get out there, learn tricks. It's like, wait, that's not what we're supposed to be doing. But it's cool that that par I think it, I think what the, the, the really cool factor of all that is there are definitely people our age. I, I'm, I'm, I'm grouping you into my age category. I'm 47.

1 (1h 56m 38s):
All right. Yeah.

2 (1h 56m 41s):
Close enough. But, but that have kids and, and skateboarding was such a special time in our life. And then they're rediscovering it through their kids and they're skating together. And I think that's just so amazing that someone of our age would be like, You know What. I used to do that. You're into that. Like, let's go. And then you could show your kid how to do a sweeper.

1 (1h 57m 4s):
I could probably do that. I don't have kids yet, but when I do, I'll show I intend on being healthy enough and Yeah. To do a sweeper, people can look up sweeper. We don't have to explain it for 'em, but a little layback grind or a sweeper. Yep. Oh yeah. Because they won't, they wouldn't think to do it.

2 (1h 57m 17s):
No. And they're doing all these difficult flip tricks. And then that's not my, that's not my scene. Yeah.

1 (1h 57m 22s):
What's your go-to on a game of skate if you're gonna really like take out the younger generation?

2 (1h 57m 26s):
I can do impossibles pretty, pretty regularly

1 (1h 57m 33s):
On transition.

2 (1h 57m 33s):
Consistently. I knew I'm flat. So this is

1 (1h 57m 35s):
Where basically you scrape the back of the, it's an Ollie really, but it wraps around the back foot. The whole board

2 (1h 57m 40s):
Wraps over your foot. Yeah. That's kind of my, my sneak attack on games escape.

1 (1h 57m 45s):
Does Rodney Mullen get credit for that Trick still? Oh yes. That's, yeah. That's a Rodney are you still in touch with Rodney? Absolutely.

2 (1h 57m 52s):
Yeah.

1 (1h 57m 52s):
Yeah. He's somebody that certainly deserves, deserves mention in the pioneering of tricks. I think of he's

2 (1h 57m 57s):
The godfather of modern skateboarding.

1 (1h 57m 59s):
I think of Rodney, you and Mar Gonzalez Gones as like the, the guys that

2 (1h 58m 7s):
I'm honored

1 (1h 58m 9s):
Drove the, the progression in different, partially overlapping directions that set the template. Yeah. For

2 (1h 58m 14s):
Essentially I learned fingertips because of Rodney. Like the first Trick you saw me do, I learned that because I saw Rodney do it on the ground. And I thought, well, I can't do it on the ground, but I have plenty of time in the air to do it.

1 (1h 58m 26s):
It's awesome. It's awesome that Stacy put you guys together. We, we mentioned Bones Brigade, but we didn't really talk about the architecture of it from the perspective of skateboard progression. But it was kinda like any good band. It seemed like there was really good chemistry. Yeah. Interpersonally. But also that there was, each person had something unique. You skated the way you did. Mike skated the way he did Stevie the way he did. And You know, Rodney and You know and, and we

2 (1h 58m 51s):
Respected each other, but we also fed off each other.

1 (1h 58m 54s):
Tommy Guerrero. Yep. Right. 'cause growing up in the Bay area like streak. Yeah. In fact, Tommy skated in the hills of San Francisco in those videos makes it look easy. Yeah. But those hills are, are rough. They're dangerous. And they have real life obstacles like moving buses. You'll notice he wasn't stopping his top signs. No. So that's fantastic. We could reminisce about all these angles. But the, the point being that spending time with people who do similar things or the same thing but do it differently is one of the best ways to progress. This is why I routinely fly to Texas and hang out with Peter Attia, another podcaster, Lex Friedman. Just 'cause they do things differently than I do. Where do you draw sort of peripheral Inspiration from now?

1 (1h 59m 36s):
Like I know you, I see Jimmy Wilkins at your ramp quite a lot. The phenom Jimmy Wilkins. Yep. It's kind of eerie how good that kid is. What, who else are you spending time with besides Reese? And one of the reasons I ask this is that skateboarding is unique among many sports in that a given session, a gathering to skateboard will include an enormous

2 (1h 59m 57s):
55 8 men and 10 year old girls. Exactly. Yes.

1 (1h 59m 60s):
Which is, which is incredible. You don't think about soccer. You know a serious game of soccer between no professional soccer players.

2 (2h 0m 6s):
But also it's not even that that we're skating together, it's that we are communicating and influencing each other. I mean that is like the last conversation I had with Reese was she's talking about like, are you gonna try to do five forties again? I go, yeah, I'm kind of working on it. She goes, well I think, 'cause she saw me try one. She goes, I think you need to pull out a little more. And she was right.

1 (2h 0m 27s):
And she's how old again? She's

2 (2h 0m 29s):
10. And I, and I didn't even consider that because I'm just back in my mode and I'm not taking into consideration that I don't have the snap that I had before I got hurt. And she was, I mean that was one key to me making it and You know to that, that, but it, but to me that's just, that's representative skateboarding and the inclusivity of it and the diversity of it. Where it's me, I'm 55. There's 30 year old pros that are at the top of the game. There are 17 year old up and comers men, women, 10 year old girl that is doing tricks that we've never even thought of or want to do.

2 (2h 1m 12s):
And it's all part of the, the whole mix.

1 (2h 1m 18s):
That's really beautiful. I want to ask you about Memorabilia, not a topic that I think about much, but I think in a prior conversation of ours, you mentioned something about this. So You know there are skateboard collectors, there are people that collect stickers, skateboards. There's a whole market and world for this and In addition to people wanting selfies with you when they see you. I imagine there's a long history and continued tradition of people taking a pen, putting your hand and saying, can you sign this? Yeah. Right. Because you are in this very small but very clearly esteemed group of people where your signature increases the value of things.

1 (2h 2m 1s):
So how does that work and how does that feel? Like if a skateboarder who You know there are the telltale signs of who is and who isn't, right? Yes. If they walk up to you and they're like, Hey, will you sign this? Do you feel good about signing it? Or is that something that you refrain from? And and if somebody's just merely a collector, a trader and they're trying to build their portfolio, so to speak, you can probably also sense that. So I'm not trying to put you in the hot seat here.

2 (2h 2m 28s):
Well, to answer your question, through the years, I was always open to that and, and I'm happy to, especially when people are skaters or, or skate fans and whatnot. In the last three years there has been this new element of resellers of people that just go buy signature stuff. They have nothing to, with skating. They don't care about skateboarding at all. They just want to get my signature on an item and sell it. And they usually do it on eBay or through their own channels. That's fine. At some point, like a few years ago, I respected the hustle. These guys are, they knew that I was gonna be at this event.

2 (2h 3m 9s):
Okay, they're outside waiting, they've been waiting for hours. I'll, I'll sign a couple things. But in recent months even they have figured out how to get my flight info. Like some hacked into my, my actual airline accounts. Some have sources at certain airports that get the manifests and they sell the information. I've found all this out because I've actually held a couple of 'em accountable because I said, look, I'm not gonna sign this until you tell me how you knew I was gonna be here. I have no business here. I'm here to visit family. No one knows I'm coming here. Oh, well we saw a friend said they saw you at the Detroit airport. Like no, they didn't, they wouldn't know where I'm going to anyway.

2 (2h 3m 49s):
Like, well, I saw it on Twitter. You didn't see it on Twitter. I'm on Twitter. Tell me the truth. There's a guy from T M Z that gets flight info and he sells it to us. Okay, thank you. But that has increased to a point where it's not, it's not sustainable. I can't, I can't please everyone. The last time I flew out of Chicago, there were about 15 people. One guy had a, a shopping cart full of skateboards and they all, they all bum rushed me at security before I went through security thinking that I'm gonna sign stuff. I'm like, you guys, I can't, I can't do that. I I'm gonna miss my flight and I can't delineate who like, I I I'm sorry you guys have like sabotaged yourselves.

2 (2h 4m 32s):
I dunno what to say. And then I went through security and there were four dudes waiting at the gate. They had bought tickets, airline tickets so that it could be past security that they airline tickets they're not gonna use to chase this.

1 (2h 4m 49s):
Whoa.

2 (2h 4m 49s):
So I mean, wha people want my autograph, but it's weird and it's intrusive and it's kind of creepy.

1 (2h 4m 55s):
It just tell them that a neuroscientist told you that you gotta get that slaw bear. Right. And if you sign too many Autographs that you're never gonna get that.

2 (2h 5m 3s):
You're get all my chances of getting it back.

1 (2h 5m 5s):
You're not gonna get the tuck knee. Yeah. You're not just not gonna be do the flap knee invert. You're just not gonna get it. So

2 (2h 5m 9s):
Anyway, it, it is a, it's just a really weird new Yeah. Thing that has is weird, has it has popped up. And other than that, and, and so the tricky part is when there is a public thing or a public exhibition or whatever to try to figure out who is the true skate fans and who aren't. Usually they're pretty identifiable, but it, it just, it it has ruined the experience for people who truly are that grew up skating.

1 (2h 5m 35s):
Oh, well thanks for sharing that. And we won't tell everyone what the telltale signs are so that these people don't exploit them. The skateboarders, the real fans will know. They won't even have to worry about whether or not they represent accurately. 'cause the, you just will. On the positive side, something I've been wanting to learn more about from you is your philanthropic efforts. I think Kevin Rose, who's in the tech sector was the first to mention to me that you have, you guys have done some philanthropy together. Yeah. And maybe you've done some with Jim Thibo as well, the great Jim Thibo. Yeah.

2 (2h 6m 14s):
Well, both, both Jim and Kevin were board members. Jim is the current board member of the Skatepark Project.

1 (2h 6m 21s):
So tell us about the skateboard project.

2 (2h 6m 23s):
It's, it's, it's my nonprofit and we try to develop public skateparks and under in underserved areas, but more so by, by supporting the community and giving them the resources to do so. So groups that are trying to get skateparks in the area, we are the resource center for them. We'll give them advice, we'll give them funding, we'll give them our stamp of approval, And that can go a long way. And to date, we've helped to fund over almost a thousand skateparks now and seven or 800 of which are open. I mean, it's my proudest work for sure. And, and it's because I never, I, I never took for granted the fact that I grew up near a Skatepark And.

2 (2h 7m 6s):
that was my home way from home. That was where I found my sense of community, my sense of identity, my, my crew and so many kids choose to skateboard but have no support in doing so. And so those skateparks are a lifeline.

1 (2h 7m 21s):
Yeah, I can attest. They they absolutely save lives. There's no question. Where can people find out more about your foundation? We can provide a link, but where, I

2 (2h 7m 30s):
Guess Skatepark dot org.

1 (2h 7m 31s):
So where does the funding for these parks actually come from?

2 (2h 7m 35s):
It comes from donations from supporters. It comes from fundraisers. Some corporate, sometimes funding is, is funneled through us for specific regions like the, we have a built to play project that's in Michigan and New York, and that's funded by the Ralph C. Wilson Junior Foundation. So they, they give us the funding and then we have to give it to that area. But, but it's easy because there's plenty of projects and now there's an abundance of skateparks in those areas.

1 (2h 8m 7s):
Love it. Thank you for doing that, for organizing around that. Please. And I

2 (2h 8m 10s):
Get to get more places to skate.

1 (2h 8m 15s):
I'm curious what's in the immediate horizon, right? These days you probably have the option to say yes to things and no to things. Yeah. You know you have a family, you have your skateboard career. Where do you place your priorities in terms of how to carve up your day or your week? I mean, what would you like to make sure that you do or as much of the hours of your waking day for the next, let's just say five years? 'cause and if you wanna extend that out, you can, but,

2 (2h 8m 45s):
Well, I, I wanna be available to my kids first and foremost. And we still have one at home for the next four years. So I will make sure that I'm available to her. And in terms of career, I never had great Aspirations. Like I never thought, okay, these are, this is What I want to accomplish. It was always this very more You know, Trick specific oriented. So it was always like, oh, I wanna try this and this and this. I would like to continue skating. I don't know if I'll be able to skate at the level I'm skating right now in five years, but I know that I'll still be on the ramp. I may not be doing it in public, trying to advocate for public skateparks doing more with the foundation and whatever.

2 (2h 9m 31s):
I, I think, I think the way I prioritize my time is what will resonate the furthest and have the best impact on skateboarding in general. I do feel that I've come to a point where, yes, I'm some, I'm unofficial ambassador to skateboarding and I wanna represent it well. I wanna, I want to be fair in that skateboarding is all kinds of different things. It's not just X Games or Olympics or, or or whatnot. It's, it, it represents a, a true culture. And I want to project that as much as I can and, and make sure that people understand that that's also positive.

2 (2h 10m 15s):
And I mean, really everything that I'm doing now is, is just kind of fun. Like I, it's for the, I would say in the last five to to 10 years is the first time I've truly enjoyed what skateboarding has provided me in terms of opportunity. And What, it brings to me and And What, it means to my family. Like I have a much better appreciation understanding for it. And these days it's just like, everything's kind of just gravy. It's just so fun. I can't believe I could still do it for a living. It's crazy. I'm 55 years old and I truly ride my skateboard as a career. Like that's nuts. And I wouldn't have it any other way.

1 (2h 10m 56s):
Well, it certainly is earned. And I just wanna say thank you for a number of things. First of all, thank you for going to the Skatepark. Thank you for picking this trajectory. Thank you for inspiring me and so many other young people and old people, older people over so many decades now, both with what you did on a skateboard and off the skateboard, and including your resilience and determination to push and continue to progress to the point where you were badly injured. And then to push through that come back at least match what you did previously. And I, I would wager that you will exceed your prior skill level going forward.

1 (2h 11m 38s):
So I want to thank you for your resilience. I know it comes from an intrinsic drive, your love of skateboarding. It just absolutely comes through. I share in some of that, of course, having grown up in it, but not nearly as much as you, but also just your willingness to stretch out into these different areas, like the video game thing or talk about X Games, the Olympics, because that did allow for a lot of growth and lateral movement of skateboarding. And at the same time, just as you said, to bring it right back to the fact that skateboarding isn't one thing, it is not like other sports, it's its own sport. Yeah. And it's its own lifestyle. It's its own thing. And we do consider you the ambassador for skateboarding.

1 (2h 12m 20s):
And I appreciate it. I speak for many people and I say that we're very grateful that you are because you bring that, that shrewdness And that prudence to it, but also that get after it, punk rock spirit and the goodness that your parents You know instilled in you clearly comes through everything from the philanthropy and onwards. So I can't say enough positive things Oh, thank you. Or express enough gratitude for your, what you've done and for your time here, your legacy and skateboarding, but also just in the game of life is clearly cemented. So thank you.

2 (2h 12m 48s):
Oh, thank you. Well, hey, I, and I appreciate the, the, the ethos of, of skateboarding shines through on your show and just your crew here, it's clearly a lot of 'em come from the skateboard world, so you're, you're still supporting it, whether You know it or not.

1 (2h 13m 3s):
Thanks so much and hopefully you'll come back and we'll do it again. All

2 (2h 13m 9s):
Right, sounds good.

1 (2h 13m 9s):
Thank you for joining me for today's discussion with Tony Hawk. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero-cost way to support us In addition, please subscribe to the podcast on Spotify and Apple and on both Spotify and Apple. You can leave us up to a five star review. If you have questions for me or comments about the podcast or guests that you'd like me to consider hosting on the Huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comment section on YouTube. I do read all the comments. Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast.

Momentous (2h 13m 44s):
Not on today's podcast, but on many previous episodes of the Huberman Lab podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't necessary for everybody, many people derive tremendous benefit from them for things like improving sleep hormone support and focus. The Huberman Lab podcast has partnered with Momentous supplements. If you'd like to access the supplements discussed on the Huberman Lab podcast, you can go to live Momentous spelled o u s, so it's live Momentous dot com slash Huberman and you can also receive 20% off. Again, that's lib momentus, spelled o u s.com/ Huberman.

1 (2h 14m 15s):
If you haven't already subscribed to our Neural Network Newsletter, our Neural Network Newsletter is a completely zero cost monthly Newsletter. That includes summaries of podcast episodes as well as protocols that is short PDFs describing, for instance, tools to improve sleep tools to improve neuroplasticity. We talk about deliberate cold exposure, Fitness various aspects of mental health. Again, all completely zero cost. And to sign up, you simply go to Huberman Lab dot com, go over to the menu in the corner, scroll down to Newsletter and provide your email. We do not share your email with anybody if you're not already following me on Social Media. I am Huberman Lab on all platforms. So that's Instagram, Twitter threads, LinkedIn and Facebook.

1 (2h 14m 55s):
And at all of those places, I talk about science and science related tools, some of which overlaps with the content of the Huberman Lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from the content of the Huberman Lab podcast. Again, it's Huberman Lab on all Social Media platforms. Thank you for joining me for today's discussion with Tony Hawk. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science.