Caesars Sportsbook (0s):
Caesar's Sportsbook is the only Sportsbook app with Caesar's Rewards. That means win or lose every bet brings you closer to the types of perks only Caesar's can offer. Like hotel stays at over 50 iconic destinations. Bonus Betts daily profit boosts tickets to the game dining and so much more. Whether you're a new or existing customer, Caesar's Sportsbook is always rewarding. Must be 21 gambling problem. Call 1-800-GAMBLER Caesar's Sportsbook. Don't just spectate participate.

1 (31s):
Well, folks, there's a big lie that we in the United States keep telling ourselves is particularly true on the right, but it's true across the board and that lie is that we want our government to be fiscally responsible in some way, shape, or form. That is clearly a lie because we keep electing politicians to not be fiscally responsible in any way, shape or form, regardless of who runs the government. The spending keeps going in one direction and that direction is up. There's a reason we are running a $34 trillion national debt at this point in time and it is likely that that debt is going to continue to accrue because nobody takes this problem particularly seriously and they're not going to take that problem seriously until we run smack into a wall.

1 (1m 11s):
That is how typically fiscal crises work. Countries spend too much money, they're unable to rein it back in because there are too many people who become dependent on that spending of the money and then instead of creating some sort of plan to get out of debt, people just keep running up those debts, keep running up those deficits until the time comes that you have to take extremely harsh remediating action. That is the high likelihood here. Why do I say this? Well, because yesterday the House Republicans as well as the house Democrats passed overwhelmingly yet another continuing resolution and this is the way we now fund the government because we're not able to actually have serious negotiations on department, department by department level with regard to spending.

1 (1m 52s):
We're not able to negotiate over how much should be spent on defense or how much should be spent on education. Instead, we sort of wrap everything up into a ball and then when we can't get approval on a year long budget, then we go to continuing resolutions. We try to these short form budgets that continue the government spending And, you know, we just kinda keep the train running and the train will run until the train runs completely off those tracks. According to the Wall Street Journal. Congress cleared legislation extending government funding into March, a step that ensures that federal workers will remain on the job but does nothing to alleviate underlying political pressures stemming from high US debt levels, record crossings at the southern border and an enduring war in Ukraine. The Senate passed that measure 77 to 18 followed by house approval three 14 to 1 0 8 because again, the easiest thing in Congress is to get lost in a crowd.

1 (2m 36s):
The easiest thing in Congress is to simply side with an overwhelming majority of people who say status quo. Let's just keep doing what it is that we are doing right now. The two votes sent the measure to President Biden's desk with time to spare ahead of a weekend deadline. In a replay of recent votes that underscore the fragility of the GOP majority According to the Wall Street Journal house speaker Mike Johnson relied heavily on Democrats to bring in that continuing resolution across the finish line. In fact, there was a fraught moment when it seemed as though there would not be a majority of Republicans in favor of the continuing resolution. As it turns out, he was able to get 107 Republicans to vote for as opposed to 106 against house internal Republican rules prevent any Republican from moving forward with a bill that does not have at least, at least support of a majority of Republicans and So.

1 (3m 17s):
it came very close to the Wire on this particular bill Chip Roy, Republican from Texas who does in fact take spending seriously. He was blasting everybody right, left and center about not only the spending but the fact that nobody in Congress seems to want to solve serious problems anymore.

2 (3m 32s):
My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have no problem with wide open borders endangering the people that I represent. None and my constituents are the ones left holding the bag and the people who Texas are the ones left spending 12 and a half billion dollars and my people are the ones who have six kids die from fentanyl poisoning in the school district that I represent. Yeah, it's not fun to smirk at that. Is it when we're talking about dead children from fentanyl poisoning because of wide open borders, because of the policies of my Democrat colleagues who refuse to do anything about it, not a thing. Listen, speaker, not a thing. Do my colleagues do about the wide open borders Speaker and I will continue to speak to my colleagues because us

3 (4m 17s):
Will be in order. The gentleman will address his comments to the chair.

2 (4m 20s):
Well, madam Speaker, I am addressing my comments to the chair.

3 (4m 25s):
The house will be in order.

2 (4m 28s):
I'm addressing the chair on behalf of the people that I represent who are dying in Texas because of Democrats, directly because of Democrat policies.

1 (4m 41s):
Representative Roy then added it doesn't matter who's sitting in the speaker seat or who has the majority, we keep doing the same stupid stuff, which requires us to ask a pretty simple question, why is it that we keep doing these same stupid stuff? Is that a matter of not having the right people in power or is it just that the American people refuse to recognize the reality about themselves, which is that we constantly say that we wanna balance the budget. We constantly say we wanna spend less money and then as soon as there is a poll asking what we would like to cut, we all run for the hills and we have no idea what it is that we would like to cut. The reason being that it's very easy to say broad things about cutting on pork barrel projects here and there and sure you can cut a post, a post office in West Virginia and sure you can get rid of a bridge to nowhere in Alaska that is not going to touch the structural entitlement programs that millions and millions of Americans have become dependent upon and who are now unwilling to give that up.

1 (5m 33s):
All the third rails of American politics now form an extraordinary spider web of third rails that no one can touch under any circumstances, which is why you have seen candidates of both major parties basically decide they're no longer going to talk about the single biggest problem facing the United States in future decades, and that is the spending problem Donald Trump has vowed he's not going to touch that spending problem. By the way, Donald Trump, in fact has campaigned from the left against fellow conservatives in the Republican party. He has said that if you talk about restructuring entitlement programs, this makes you a liberal. Now again, that makes no sense on the face of it, but it's been an effective pitch. Why? Because again, as it turns out, many Americans actually don't want to talk about these things. They would prefer to leave that bogey man in the closet rather than open it up and simply deal with it.

1 (6m 17s):
This is why it frustrates me when you see all of this talk about Speaker Mike Johnson. Oh, let's just oust him. Let's just get rid of speaker Mike Johnson over something like the continuing resolution. Okay, I suppose you can do that and then who will it be? You already did this routine with Kevin McCarthy. You already dumped Kevin McCarthy over Matt Gates. Did this suggesting that Kevin McCarthy had given in too much to the Democrats despite the fact that the deal that McCarthy was trying to cut was significantly more conservative than the one that actually ended up being cut, and then they put in place Mike Johnson, who again, fine guy, good conservative, but is facing the same exact structural problems that Kevin McCarthy was facing in the first place. Here is the reality. In order for any serious major change to get done, you are going to have to have a unified party control over Congress, over the Senate, over the presidency and a dedication by that party to take the hit, to take the hit Democrats take the hits.

1 (7m 11s):
By the way, this is something that Democrats are good at. Democrats took the hit in 2010. In 2010 they passed Obamacare and then they got shellacked at the polls. It was a very, very bad midterm for them and they took the hit because they knew that if they could completely restructure the healthcare system, that in the end these would become entitlements that people relied upon. They would rather take the short-term hit for the long-term gain. When was the last time Republicans took a short-term hit for the long-term gain? When is the last time they passed something other than say a tax cut that actually fundamentally restructured how finances work in this country? And the answer is they don't, and the reason they don't is because they're afraid they'll be tossed out of office and maybe that's just a, again, a structural imbalance in the way that the two parties work.

1 (7m 53s):
It's very easy to get reelected suggesting you're going to spend more money that doesn't exist and it's very hard to get reelected suggesting that you're going to cut money from the federal budget, especially from a bunch of people who say that they need that money in the first place. But this is why it's a point of high irritation when people suggest that it's just that Johnson is a bad guy or something. The people who are telling you that sort of thing, the people who are telling you that it's Johnson's fault, this continuing resolution got passed that if only he had shut down the government, more government shutdowns. Okay, we've done multiple government shutdowns in the past few years. Has that changed the trajectory of the spending in any real significant way? The answer of course is no. The people who are on the air right now telling you that the continuing resolution should have been pushed aside in favor of something harsher in favor of a government shutdown in favor of a harder bargaining position with Joe Biden, those people are fibbing to you about the incentive structure.

1 (8m 40s):
The incentive structure is what the incentive structure is, and unless you have a unified Republican control of the house, the senate and the presidency, you're not going to get the kind of spending cuts that make it worthwhile for you to risk your seat. Because I'll tell you what happens. You do a government shutdown, you're gonna end up passing a continuing resolution anyway and a bunch more people are going to lose their seed. We'll get to more on this in just one second. First, let's talk about your health.

Balance Of Nature (9m 4s):
Balance of Nature. Fruits and veggies are a great way to make sure you're getting essential nutritional ingredients every single day. Balance of Nature uses an advanced cold vacuum process that encapsulates fruits and veggies into whole food supplements without sacrificing their natural antioxidants. The capsules are completely void of additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticides, or added sugar. The only thing in balance of nature's fruit and veggie capsules are well You know fruits and veggies. Right now, not only will my listeners get 35% off your first order, you'll now get a FREE Fiber and Spice supplement as well. Balance of Nature's Fiber and Spice supplement is a revolutionary Fiber drink with a unique blend of 12 spices and Whole Foods producer. Zach actually makes it a point to bring Balance of Nature fruit and veggie capsules anytime we're on the road. He takes 'em every day to make 'em feel better and they're easy to take. There's never been an easier way to make sure you are getting your daily dose of fruits and veggies experience Balance Of Nature. For yourself today, go to Balance Of Nature dot com, use promo code SHAPIRO for 35% off your first order as a preferred customer. Plus, get a free bottle of Fiber and Spice. That's Balance Of Nature dot com promo code Shapiro. Get 35% off that first preferred order, plus a free bottle of Fiber and Spice.

1 (10m 9s):
So Johnson is taking all sorts of heat over this again from members of the right-wing press. Is it really going to do many damage in the long run? I think not, but it just underscores again, the central problem in American life. Politicians make a living by lying to you and you have a choice. Your choice is whether you like being lied to and so you decide to go along with their lives or whether you don't like being lied to any politician who says he can save you, save your family, save your society by spending money here or by restructuring a program there is lying to you. The vast majority of choices in your life are up to you, and when people rely on politicians too much, they end up shooting themselves in the foot and then they buy into the next grifter who comes along and suggests that he's going to fix whatever problems are at hand.

1 (10m 54s):
Now speaking of Grifters, the situation on the border continues to be a full scale disaster area. In fact, fascinating piece from the New York Post. This has been suggested to me by the way, by friends over at Border Patrol as well. The numbers of border encounters are dropping fairly significantly since the beginning of the year. This raises a question, why is that happening? We recently went down to the border at the very, very beginning of the year and the end of December had been like a water, a high watermark in terms of number of migrant encounters at the border. We're talking hundreds of thousands of people in one month alone and then beginning of January you saw kind of not so much. One of the theories that was floated by Border Patrol was that basically Joe Biden had cut a deal with Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who is the leader amlo, the leader of Mexico, to basically cut down on the illegal immigration in an election year.

1 (11m 46s):
And now this is being pretty openly suggested by Todd Binman over the New York Post quote. Just in time for election year, border crossings have plummeted a sign that Joe Biden has struck a secret deal with the Mexican president's help his campaign. Again, this would not be the biggest shock in the world. Remember Barack Obama did this with Dimitri Medvedev in 2012. He literally sat next to him and said, tell Vladimir I'll have more flexibility after the election. Remember when Donald Trump tells a foreign country he wants them to do something for electoral purposes, that's impeachable. When Barack Obama does it in the middle of an election cycle, that's just politics apparently. According to the New York Post daily border patrol encounters of illegal immigrants crossing the border was 12,000 to 14,000 per day at the end of December. But according to government, data confidentially shared with me, it has dropped to a still manager early catastrophic, yet smaller 4,002, 5,000 per day.

1 (12m 32s):
Why exactly is that happening? Well, there are a bunch of Biden administration diplomatic missions to Mexico City Over Christmas, Mexican media in fact has been reporting what was said. Here's some of the news, quote. Mexican law enforcement officials are rounding up immigrants in the country's north and shipping them by bus and airplane to southern cities like Tappe in Shaa state and Villa Elmosa in Tabasco state. They're all expected to go home or stay put alongside those continuing to enter from Guatemala. And then another story to eliminate another obvious draw. Mexican authorities have emptied and then bulldozed at least one long standing migrant camp, the sprawling one in Madam Mars across the Rio Grande from Brownsville and dug deep anti pedestrian trenches to further deny access to popular crossings. There it was done under US pressure according to one Mexican newspaper.

1 (13m 16s):
So apparently it sounds very much as though Mexico is doing Joe Biden a favor. In fact, according to Mexican media, this is part of a broader agreement signed by Mexico's immigration service and border patrol to block northbound immigrants on public roads as well. What exactly is Mexico getting in return? AMLO has called for $20 billion to be shared among his country and some others for starters, according to media reports. It's also quite possible that Biden is telling AMLO that he's gonna do better with Biden than he would with Trump. That would not be a shock in any way, shape or form. It has become a priority to Joe Biden to get the immigration issue off the front pages. Presumably this is why Joe Biden is now thinking about caving on immigration as he should.

1 (13m 56s):
I've been saying for months at this point that it is political malpractice for Joe Biden not to cave on immigration. It makes no sense for him to effectively push the far left open borders line in the face of terrible polling numbers when he's running in an absolute neck and neck dog fight with Donald Trump. It makes zero sense whatsoever. By the way, the latest polling data has Joe Biden with a very, very slim lead over Donald Trump in a potential presidential contest. Now remember, that'd be in the popular vote. Lead Donald Trump if he's within one point of Joe Biden nationally. Good shot humans at the electoral college. However, there are a couple of surveys that are out, one from Ipsos and one from U gov that give Biden a lead up between one and two percentage points.

1 (14m 36s):
Okay, so this is a dog fight no matter how you slice it. There are zero polls right now. Zero polls that have Joe Biden up on Donald Trump in any significant fashion, any true significant fashion. We'll get to more on this in just one second. First,

Black Rifle Coffee Company (14m 49s):
black Rifle Coffee fuels The Daily Wire every single morning and fuels me personally every single morning. Not only do they have ready to drink cans for people with no time to brew coffee in the traditional way, their coffee subscription gives you the chance to purchase limited edition flavors. Black Rifle Coffee subscription gives you nothing but the best. It's a Coffee of the Month Club where you get premium roses from the best farms worldwide. Every month you'll get a new exotic roast shipped to your door, each with a unique origin and a killer bag designed with a matching sticker. Black Rifle Coffee is a veteran founded coffee company operated by principled men and women who honor those who protect, defend, and support our country with every purchase you make, they give back. So stop running out of coffee, sign up for a coffee club subscription. Have black Rifle Coffee delivered straight to your door on a schedule Save money, drink America's coffee, go to black Rifle Coffee dot com, use promo code SHAPIRO checkout for 10% off your one-time purchase or first coffee club order. That's black Rifle Coffee dot com promo code Shapiro for 10% off. You can also find black Rifle Coffee and grocery and convenience stores near you, black Rifle Coffee. It's America's coffee.

1 (15m 49s):
So why exactly wouldn't he go ahead and simply cave on immigration? Well the answer is he's now starting to, now he's finally starting to see political reality, which actually by the way for the country is a good thing. You want President Biden to govern a lot more from the middle than he has thus far. According to the Wall Street Journal and immigration deal being crafted in the Senate would limit migrant's ability to claim asylum at the southern border. A White House concession, some progressives say shows that President Biden's leftward shift on immigration as a 2020 candidate was a blip in his long political career. This of course would be paired for New War Aid for Ukraine, for Israel, for Taiwan House. Speaker Mike Johnson said after a meeting with Joe Biden on Wednesday at the White House, he said we'd talk about the necessary elements to solve this problem. He said that would require reform to the broken asylum and parole systems.

1 (16m 32s):
Parole is basically where Joe Biden simply declares that a bunch of people who are in the country illegally have been paroled and can thus wander the country freely. They haven't been amnesty, but it's fine. And as far as asylum, the current asylum system is you come to the country, you claim just wave your hand. You say, I fear to go home to my home country. They release you into the country within 72 hours and you're gone. Republicans would like remain in Mexico. Biden is not giving them remain in Mexico so far. This is what they should push for. By the way, Republicans should push for remain in Mexico as national immigration policy. However, Joe Biden is in fact moving at this point. He's moving again because the poll numbers for him are dire. 68% of those surveyed in A CBS news polls say they disapprove of his border policies.

1 (17m 12s):
So he is now moving and shifting on this particular issue. Biden, apparently, again, he doesn't want remain in Mexico because he's afraid that if he says remain in Mexico, then that will give something for Trump to run on, which is weird. I said that's bad logic. If he did remain in Mexico, he would have to admit that Trump was right in the first place, but also he would say that he got it right now. So what exactly is the major issue? Apparently the president was originally influenced by wait Fr it First Lady, Dr. Joe Biden. It was originally Dr. Joe Biden who pushed him to the left on immigration because she was very upset with family separations and remain in Mexico. She had visited a tent of migrants living just across the southern border in Matmos, one of the most dangerous cities in Mexico.

1 (17m 53s):
So he got rid of Romaine in Mexico and all the rest. But now it looks as though he's gonna have to bring back some of this stuff. He's still uncomfortable with bringing back any form of romaine in Mexico, According to the Wall, Street Journal. But advisors are bringing him numerous ideas on ways to run that program that give priority to migrants safety. So maybe he'll bring back Romaine in Mexico, which by the way, according to my friends in border patrol, would be the single biggest change he could make that would actually shut down mass migration to the border. In fact, he's being pushed to his right even by Democrats. According to The Daily Wire 14 house Democrats voted to denounce the Biden administration's open borders policies. On Wednesday, the group of party defectors joined with all voting Republicans. In passing a resolution introduced by representative Nathaniel Moran, Republican of Texas 12 Democrats and nine Republicans did not vote.

1 (18m 40s):
In addition to denouncing Joe Biden's border policies, the resolution condemned the national security and public safety crisis along the southwest border. So it'll be interesting to see what exactly happens here. Donald Trump for his part is, is doing something somewhat strange. Trump has been suggesting that perhaps Republicans should not cut any deal with Joe Biden on immigration whatsoever because if they cut a deal then presumably he's gonna be able to tout that he's more modern on an i on immigration than he has here to forbid. But honestly, that is not the way the congressional politics typically ought to work. If you can get a big concession out of a Democratic president, you do it and Trump can still run on it. I mean, one thing that you're not gonna see Biden run on is mass deportations.

1 (19m 20s):
That's exactly what Trump is running on here. He was yesterday.

4 (19m 23s):
But there are also people the country don't, countries don't want. They're not sending their best. People over You know these guys are smart. I know 'em, the presidents, the dictators, the prime ministers. Some of 'em call themselves prime ministers, but they're very smart people and they're not sending their hard workers and they're, you get a lot of people coming into our country that we're not gonna want, we don't want and we're gonna have the largest deportation in the history of this country.

1 (19m 50s):
Again, Trump is not gonna get out flanked by Biden on immigration policy. So Congressional Republicans ought to very seriously push Joe Biden as far as they can and then take a win. It is good to take wins from Joe Biden. I understand that we now live in a weird universe in which somehow prying giant concessions out of Joe Biden is considered a loss of some sort. But that's not Houthis works. The Inflation Reduction Act is a loss 'cause you got zero concessions out of Joe Biden on the Inflation Reduction Act. You could have just killed that one outright, but on this one, Republicans actually do by and large want Israel aid. Republicans are split fairly down the middle on Ukraine aid. They do want more aid for Taiwan and they certainly want more border security measures and you get what you can get because frankly, there's no guarantee that Donald Trump is gonna be president come January, 2025.

1 (20m 31s):
Anyway, you gotta get what's on the table. The fact that Mike Johnson and the Republicans have maneuvered Joe Biden to a bad immigration position is good for them. And if they can get a big concession out of that, they absolutely should. We have to more on this in just one second. First,

Grand Canyon University (20m 44s):
The Ben Shapiro Show is supported by Grand Canyon University, an affordable private Christian university with a vibrant campus in beautiful Phoenix, Arizona, ranked top 20 in the country by niche.com. GCU is a missional Christ Center University that strives to foster a culture of community giving and impact. GCU U'S goal is to help you develop into a servant leader who makes a difference through finding your purpose. With 330 academic programs in over 270 online, as of June, 2023, GCU integrates the free market system with a welcoming Christian worldview into your bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree Find your purpose at Grand Canyon University private Christian affordable. Visit gcu.edu today.

1 (21m 21s):
Now speaking of President Trump, I have to say it is truly amazing to see the lengths to which the media will go in order to generate weird stories about him. So day before yesterday, Donald Trump was spotted coming out of a New York courthouse and he was raising his hand and he was waving to the cameras and he appears to have some sort of strange, I don't know what they, how could wounds on his hand, red markings on his hand. And this led to widespread speculation on the left about why Donald Trump had these things on his hands. Here was morning Joe suggesting that maybe it's because he was acting like a baby and banging a table.

5 (22m 0s):
Do we have any answer on what, what's on Donald Trump's like Donald Trump has, has his, his hands are bleeding, looks like he has a sore. Is that magic marker? No. Is it magic marker? Because it looks like he has a sore on his index finger there. I don't know, I maybe it's magic marker.

6 (22m 19s):
I don't know. It's, it's looks like a cut. I mean that's blood, isn't it? I, I don't wanna speculate, I don't know, but is was there anything that happened? Speculate inside the courtroom yesterday, Lisa, that would

7 (22m 28s):
There, there was You know there was a point in time during the day where Trump very frustrated with Judge Kaplan banged his hands down on the table. I doubt that listers are Mark that we're seen there come from that, but could they be exacerbated by that perhaps?

1 (22m 45s):
Oh my gosh, here we go. By the way that that is, that is actually the least stupid explanation given by Democrats. I've also heard leprosy, I'm not kidding that these would be the beginning signs of leprosy. We're watching Papillon or something and, and then James Carville comes out and says Maybe it's syphilis. Ah, these people,

8 (23m 3s):
If you go to the Drudge report and I think it'll still be up there, there there's a story that talks about Trump having hand cuts and you can link to it. They don't look like cuts to me. They look like so, and I've asked a number of MDSs what medical condition manifests itself through hand sores and the answer is immediate and unanimous secondary syphilis. Alright, I think that, I think there's a good chance this man has to clap and I'm not being particularly secretive about it. I am texting the photo you can link to it. It's in some operation called a Daily Mail. It's some British thing. It's probably a Fleet Street rag, but You know, maybe the picture was doctored or whatever, but I maybe the story will go somewhere, maybe it won't, but I'm telling you at one o'clock Eastern I'm humping this thing like a young dog on old furniture.

1 (23m 57s):
These people are ridiculous. I'm sorry. They're totally ridiculous. By the way. My most plausible explanation is that Donald Trump was maybe smoking a cigar and burned himself. Those look like burns. By the way. They don't look actually like syphilis sores. Just for the record, I did ask my MD wife doctor what she thought it was and she said, definitely not syphilis. Because syphilis is a marking that is smaller and generally all over the hand, not in like a particular area of the hand. This way is my understanding. I could be getting that wrong, but that's it. The bottom line is that when we are speculating over the marks on Donald Trump's hand as opposed to You know Joe Bo Biden's terrible global policy, Joe Biden is running an uphill battle. That's why he ought to be giving ground on the immigration issue. As far as Donald Trump Donald trump's legal cases, again, it seems to me at this point You know this is a weird outta the box call.

1 (24m 44s):
I just don't think they're gonna amount to much. I think after all this hubbub, it's gonna be like pretty much everything else with regard to Donald Trump that that every single time they think they got him, they don't got him every single time they think they have him captured with a butterfly net. There's a giant hole in the butterfly net that is the latest out of Georgia where According to the Wall Street Journal, Fulton County District Attorney Fannie Willis, is now seeking to avoid being deposed in the divorce proceeding of a colleague. She's accused of having an affair with calling a recent subpoena for her testimony, a form of harassment meant to derail her criminal case against former President Donald Trump. You'll recall this bizarre case in which apparently Fannie Willis hired a dude to be the lead prosecutor in this case who has barely any prosecutorial experience.

1 (25m 24s):
He's in the middle of a divorce case and apparently she paid him hundreds of thousands of dollars in state money and they were jet setting around the world and going on cruises together with that money. In a Thursday court filing, Willis did not address whether she had a romantic relationship with Wade. Instead it said that because the parties agree, the marriage is irretrievably broken and the concept of fault is not an issue. There's no information district attorney Willis could provide that might prove relevant to granting or denying the divorce. So she's trying to avoid having to testify in that particular case. Now does that mean that there won't be any more shoes to drop on this? I highly doubt it. I highly doubt it. I would assume there'll be a bunch of motions from Team Trump there already have been pointing out this particular allegation and that is gonna hurt that case pretty badly.

1 (26m 8s):
We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Birch Gold Group (26m 10s):
First, folks, as you can see, 2024 is going to be nuts. You've already seen the economy. It is on tenor hooks. You already see foreign policy, it's a disaster area. So let me ask you this, with all this uncertainty, how are you protecting your savings? Well, if I were you, I would consider diversifying with gold from Birch. Gold Group. I mean, I actually did. For decades, gold has been the choice of investors and central banks to hedge against inflation. Birch Gold can help you do the same thing that I did, create a well thought out and balanced investment strategy that'll help you convert an existing IRA or 401k into an IRA in gold without paying a penny out of pocket. And this month only when you open a gold IRA with Birch Gold, you'll get a free signed copy of my book, The Authoritarian Moment. But you need to text Ben to 98. 98 98 to qualify Birch Gold has been the exclusive gold company of The Daily Wire for the past seven years. I buy my gold there and you can too. Text Ben to 98 98 98 today. Protect your savings, claim your eligibility for a free signed copy of The Authoritarian Moment. Again, text Ben to 98. 98 98 to get started with my friends at Birch Gold.

1 (27m 8s):
Meanwhile, Donald Trump is still in court with regard to this Eugene Carroll defamation suit. The reason I say that's not gonna damage him is because he already had one Eugene Carroll defamation suit and it didn't damage him. So what exactly is the damage gonna be? Now either believe the lady or you don't. I have serious doubts about Eugene Carroll's allegations here. She testifies that she was in a, a Bergman like, I don't know, 25 years ago, can't name the date, can't name the season, can't name the month, and that she was raped in a dressing room with no one hearing her not like nothing. I I I, when she wrote about this experience, by the way later she suggested she had to be talked into the fact that it was a rape by her friend.

1 (27m 49s):
In any case, Donald Trump is, is out ripping on the judge. You just get the feeling. As I said earlier this week, Donald Trump's legal foibles at this point are just tinnitus. They're just a ringing in the background in your ear and eventually they become part of the white noise of life.

4 (28m 5s):
You can go to the funeral or you can go to the trial, but you can't do both. I thought it was terrible. I thought it was terrible. So he would rather have me miss the funeral or go to the funeral Mr. Trial and that's a nasty man. He's a nasty judge. He's a Trump hating guy and it's obvious to everybody in the court, it's a disgrace. Frankly, what's happening, it's a disgrace.

1 (28m 29s):
I do love Donald Trump's use of the word nasty. He's bringing back in his original sense, which I, which I kind of appreciate. Again, is any of this gonna have any market impact on Trump's campaign? I think not. There are things that could theoretically have an impact on Trump's campaign, like for example, him being in the news every day. But it would have to be something that's not already part of the background information of our lives. And that is very difficult to do with Donald Trump. I've said this since 2015. Donald trump's a giant mud monster and the more mud you throw out him, the more he just looks like a giant mud monster. Joe Biden. That dude was supposed to be good at this and he is not good at this and it's a very, very real problem. Now meanwhile, the foreign affairs of the United States are in serious trouble.

1 (29m 9s):
If you take a look at the Middle East, obviously they continue to be in very serious trouble. Pakistan is now apparently striking inside Iran So. it turns out that when you don't contain Iran Iran lashes out at pretty much everybody According to the Wall Street Journal. Iran's military tested and found a limit to its ability to project power. This week as Pakistan responded to a missile attack with the first publicly acknowledged airstrike on Iranian territory in decades, the Pakistani retaliation followed Iran's first direct attacks in neighboring countries since Israel's war with Hamas and Gaza began in October. So now you have Pakistan, which is an ally of Saudi Arabia firing a Iran. You have Iran firing at Pakistan. You have continuing rocket fire from Iran Baab Hamas into Israel. You have rocket fire from Iran back's Hezbollah into Israel.

1 (29m 50s):
You have rocket fire from from Iran back Houthis at shipping in the red Sea. And Joe Biden still has no plan for any of this. In fact, it seems like the only sort of plans that are emerging are sporadic strikes on opposing positions that don't seem to be achieving anything like their purpose and pressure on the Israelis to stop doing what they are doing. That seems like what the, that that seems like the plan. But guess what? The Israelis are not gonna stop because there's widespread support inside Israel to take out Hamas as there should be. In fact, in breaking news 21 more hostages, their bodies were just found Hamas had murdered them. So again, all of this is just going to, all of this is just going to continue because the Biden administration doesn't actually have any sort of plan for what a realistic Middle East looks like.

1 (30m 41s):
There's a lot of talk today about Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu talking about the idea that Israel ought to maintain territorial sovereignty over the entire area from the Mediterranean Sea to the Jordan River in order to maintain security. If anyone else has any options, I'm sure people would love to hear them. No other options have been provided and every time Joe Biden and his team suggest that Israel ought to hand over land in concessions to terrorist groups, all they're doing is fomenting what Iran wants. The reality is that terrorism is not motivated by poverty and despair. Terrorism is motivated by hope. Hope that the other side will be weak enough to leave you alone, to leave you living after you have committed some of the worst atrocities known to man.

1 (31m 21s):
It is totally insane that the Biden administration continues to pressure exactly the wrong side on this sort of thing. Now I will say the Biden administration has provided the military aids so far necessary for Israel to continue its war against Kamas. That is true, but rhetorically speaking, it does make a rather large difference when you keep signaling to terrorists in Hamas that all they have to do is stay alive long enough and eventually they'll get what they want, which is namely to be left alone survival so they can continue to plan attacks and murder Jews in the future. It also doesn't ha help when you have adults like Bernie Sanders doing this routine. Bernie Sanders yesterday suggested that Israel is going to work with the entire Palestinian people, which is a weird take considering again that Israel has now sacrificed about 200 of its own men and women in an area where they have complete heir superiority and don't need to sacrifice literally any of those men or women in that area in order to protect Palestinian civilians.

1 (32m 8s):
Here's Bernie Sanders being a a tool because he is

9 (32m 12s):
My view from day one, Chris has been that Israel has the right to respond to Hamas' barbaric attack on October 7th, but they do not have the right to go to war against the entire Palestinian people, which is what we are seeing right now. And as you've just mentioned, the humanitarian situation in Gaza now is unbelievably bad and we're looking at the possibility of hundreds of thousands of children stopping. We cannot allow that to happen.

1 (32m 42s):
Israel is currently attempting to ship in more aid and there is no one on the other end to pick up the aid. Hamas is picking up the aid and they're stealing the aid and the world is gonna continue to be an incredibly fragile place because of Joe Biden. Weirdly though, there is this codery of people who exist at the top of society in in, in our global institutions who believe that they're doing a good job and that the true threat to international security is Donald Trump. We'll get to that in just one second.

Daily Wire Plus (33m 10s):
First Lady Ballers. It's the hilarious story of how a group of male losers who can't win against other men decide to identify as You know ladies and join a women's basketball league. Sure. It's absurd. It's ridiculous. It's laughable. Also, it happens to be very close to reality. Here's a quick look at what is being called the most Triggering movie of the decade. Leftists are losing it over Lady Ballers. Nothing's changed. This movie is a straight up and intentional transphobic hate crime. What I See you, the Lady Ballers movie needs to be banned. I'll cancel you. I get the blinds please. Code 11, the most toxic BSS you've ever seen. You're a monster. Yeah. Next Level hate speech propaganda. That's it. That's the pitch. Watch the most Triggering comedy of the decade, lady Ballers streaming exclusively on Daily Wire Plus Don't wait. Watch Lady Ballers. The movie Hollywood didn't make and wouldn't make. So we did exclusively a Daily Wire Plus right Now

9 (34m 9s):
meanwhile, a coterie, a very powerful people globally, they're very afraid of Donald Trump. So Joe Biden has basically set the world on fire because it turns out that the pseudo sophisticate take on foreign policy, which is basically that you can wish cast peace into existence. It's false, it's not true. And so what they're mostly afraid of now is that people will expose their stupidity to the public view, which is something that Donald Trump tended to do with actually a shocking amount of alacrity during his first term in office. And he would constantly sort of do away with silly shibboleths that had been spoken by the foreign policy elite. He would break those idiocy on the wheel of reality and they've been very upset ever since that he did that.

1 (34m 47s):
And so they don't want him back. This presumably is why they continue to maintain lie after lie with regard to international politics. So over at the Continuing World Economic Forum over at Davos, various adults, large and small, continue to maintain that Donald Trump is the truest threat to the world order. A woman in Vera Giva, she suggests that the biggest problem that we are about to face is disinformation. Because disinformation of course might mean that Donald Trump gets elected

11 (35m 14s):
Disinformation is a security threat and maybe not many noticed, but it was part of the Russian military doctrine that they will start information war and we are in it now. And this information is a very powerful tool. So how we think about it in DEU, we are focusing on improving of the system where the people will get the facts right. We don't speak about opinions, we are not correcting anyone's opinions or language. Yeah, this is about the facts.

1 (35m 50s):
Yikes. I don't trust you to be able to distinguish between opinion and fact. That was the VP of the European Commission. Meanwhile, the World Bank president continues to speak factual falsehoods like we can't eradicate poverty without solving climate change, which was weird since we've done a pretty damned good job over the course of the last 45 years on this planet in eradicating extreme poverty, not only without solving climate change, but according to you guys by exacerbating climate change. 'cause it turns out the carbon-based fossil fuels are one of the great sources of human wealth ever devised.

12 (36m 21s):
And so merely saying that I've got a new way of thinking about things or announcing policy pronouncements will not change the reality of what we face on the ground every day. What we have is an existential climate crisis. We cannot think of eradicating poverty without caring about climate. We cannot think about eradicating poverty without caring about healthcare. We cannot think about eradicating poverty without caring about food insecurity and fragility. These are, if you don't like it, tough luck.

1 (36m 56s):
Okay, well, I mean, what if I don't think that you're right? What if I think that you're just speaking nonsense and spouting nonsense? What if I think that in fact this is a global guise for propping up bad regimes that very often the climate change talk is about degrading some of the most productive regimes in the history of mankind, namely places like the United States and Europe in favor of significantly less productive regimes that are looking for subsidies and handouts. That's precisely what is going on with China. By the way, According to the Wall Street Journal, China is now doubling down on manufacturing to reboot its economy after a turbulent year. The push for new growth drivers comes as figures showed the world's second largest economy expanded at 2023 at its weakest rate in decades. What exactly are they going to do?

1 (37m 37s):
Apparently they want to dominate global markets in emerging industries like electric vehicles, batteries and renewable energy gear. So they want the United States and the EU to subsidize a bunch of green energy boondoggles where the money eventually ends up in China. They require the subsidies. Those are the places where they're going to earn their money. The hope is that growth in what Chinese officials referred to as the new three industries and other favorite sectors will help China's economy banish the specs of deflation and Japan style stagnation as a real estate crunch weighs heavily on construction investment and consumer confidence. Longer term, Beijing wants these and other high tech manufacturing industries to be in the vanguard of its push to eventually unseat the United States as the world's largest economy.

1 (38m 18s):
Well, that's not going to happen. And the reason it's not going to happen is because they're not actually targeting efficient sectors of the market for growth. Instead, what they're doing is finding places that require government subsidization and redistribution in order to have everybody pay them to offshore, all of that. Now, good luck to them, but again, this is about global financial restructuring and the people of the WF know that and Trump is a threat to that because he actually does like America as opposed to many of these other people who seem to have a peculiar global utopia in mind that they wish to pursue. Speaking of people pursuing a global socialist utopia over in Canada, what the hell happened to Canada? The targeting my friend Jordan Peterson continues a pace. This is an insane story.

1 (38m 59s):
So Jordan, for those who who actually don't know Jordan Peterson's history, probably the most famous psychologist on planet Earth, one of the most famous public intellectuals on the planet. Jordan was basically obscure or at least semi obscure in 2014, 2015. Then Bill C 16 arose in Ontario. It was a bill that was explicitly designed to shut down speech with regard to trans issues, and you might fall under the threat of punishment if you said that a boy is not a girl, for example. And Jordan spoke up about this and he spoke loudly about this and he became a national figure because of this. And then he ended up in the media speaking about all this stuff and he performed incredibly well. And then he wrote 12 Rules for Life, and that was a huge international bestseller. Sold something like five, 6 million copies, and all of a sudden now of course he works with us over The Daily Wire among his other projects.

1 (39m 44s):
Well, in November of 2022, Canada decided to target Jordan Peterson. There's an administrative board that regulates the conduct of psychologists, and they decided that Jordan's political views were a disgrace to his profession and that of clinical psychology generally. Now remember in Canada, it's not a disgrace to clinical psychology to mutilate young boys and girls in the bizarre hope that they will turn into members of the opposite sex. That's normal. What's really bad is if you tweet, so Jordan was sentenced by a board, the Ontario College of Phys psychologists to a bout of mandatory reeducation of indeterminate duration at his expense. His learning would not be a valued by any standard method, but subject to the opinion of those charged with profiting by an exploiting my four studentships as Jordan, he took the decision makers to court and then he lost.

1 (40m 32s):
Because Canada is no longer a free country, the decision of the Ontario College of Psychologists was upheld. He then appealed to a higher court and then just a couple of days ago that appeal was rejected. No reasons were provided. So as Jordan writes in the National Post, he now faces two choices. First, he can comply when the college goes ahead with its determination to require my reeducation, dutifully attend whatever bloody classes that are DEI, enthusiast, social media experts, whatever those are determined to afflict upon confess, the sins of my classic liberal conservative or even Judeo-Christian, political, philosophical, and theological commitments, repent and silence myself or even become a standard bearer for the folk compassionate woke cause at least publicly. Alternatively, I can tell my WBE masters to go directly to hell.

1 (41m 12s):
They're so rapidly gathering around themselves and everyone else lose my right to practice or even describe myself as a psychologist and suffer the consequences on the reputation front. The headline he says would be Canadian psychologist Jordan B. Peterson, disgraced to his profession, forfeits his formal license in consequence of his crimes. So what exactly are the crimes? Well, Jordan says, this is where the reader should pay careful attention. This is what lies ahead in the West, given the course of our leaders and they're still blind and definite followers. It should be hard for anyone considering the situation to believe I'm playing straight with the facts if they have their own opinions or values whatsoever. Because if what I have said and done constitutes the equivalent of a professional crime, you can be sure your own head is full of like transgressions. So here's what he did.

1 (41m 52s):
He criticized three Canadian political leaders, a councilwoman in Canada's capital, Ottawa for what I regarded and still regard as her disgraceful behavior during the Canadian trucker convoy, Justin Trudeau's, former principal secretary Gerald Butts, a man who resigned from one of the highest positions within the office of the former, amidst a scandal that had enveloped the Teflon coded Liberal administration and the woke poster boy in shining narcissist himself, Canada's Prime Minister, I pointed out the shortcomings of the idiot, costly self-aggrandizing, virtue, signaling, demoralizing, live the power, mad climate apocalypse mongers that on Joe Rogan's podcast. The entire three hour plus transcript was submitted to my college as evidence of my disgraceful conduct. I voiced my objections to the politically correct insistence that morbid obesity be regarded as the equivalent to the highest standards of athletic beauty.

1 (42m 37s):
And I took a certain Hollywood actress or actor to task because that same person used its platform to parade the advantages of double mastectomies when performed on the body so perfectly healthy young women. I regret none of these actions. These crimes were reported on the publicly accessible Ontario College of Psychologist website and former page, not by anyone who had ever actually You know, used Jordan as a psychologist or by anyone who even knew him. They were instead brought to the attention of the authorities by activists in other countries, many of whom also lied in writing, claiming that they were in fact my client. So what does that mean? Well, it doesn't mean a lot practically as Jordan says, but he says that he's going to fight this thing all the way to the end. So he says, Canadians, mark my words. Your much v Charter of Rights isn't worth the paper it's printed on as one of its last remaining signatories has been continually striving to indicate your right to free.

1 (43m 24s):
Speech is essentially non-existent as evidenced by the court's decisions we are now considering. You have almost no real rights to property, your rights to mobility can be taken away without consequence at any moment as they were very recently. You can all too easily become the indentured servants of anyone you dare to hire. Your tax load is going to continue to increase and rapidly your economy is predicted to be the worst performing of any developing country for the next three decades. So he says, are you listening? If you refuse to abide by rules so radically leftist, they would've been, and were in fact to shoot until recently by the outright socialist, Canadian new Democratic party. Your opinions have now become downright illegal. He says, I think I'll fight a little longer. I'll play along, find out exactly what you'll do now that you've been emboldened to do whatever it is that in that darkest, resentful, demons lurking in your little low level administrative hearts, most truly desire even to your own detriment, I'll see how burdensome playing your pathetic game becomes.

1 (44m 12s):
And I'll publicize every single bit of it. And if I get tired, which seems highly likely, I'll hand over the bodily license. I'm increasingly embarrassed, in any case, to possess and let you continue journeying oso morally to the dismal, fearful, pessimistic, moralizing, petty butter won't melt in our mouth. Tell us straight that you envision as the paradise best fit for your fellow citizens, yourselves and your children. So Jordan, doing what Jordan does best there, fighting back and he's gonna continue to fight back an insane story. The fact that they can target Jordan in Canada. I'm telling you, whatever happens in Canada, coming to the United States to a campus near you. Meanwhile, in breaking news, president Trump, apparently, according to Axios now has a short list of his potential VP candidates. And apparently according to Axios, the shortlist is down to three. Here are the possibilities for Donald.

1 (44m 52s):
Trump's VP candidate. One, Elise Hannick, Republican of New York. She's the chair of the house, GOP conference. And according to Steve Bannon, who really is lukewarm on Elise, he says that she's at the top. Stefanik was the first member of Congress to endorse Trump. She's very loyal to him obviously. She recently suggested that the members of the January 6th riot who are in prison, she called them hostages, which is strange language to use about people who have been criminally convicted. Even if you like a hostage means that you have to do something to get the hostage released. And it's a weird word to use, but she also happens to be very capable. She's an excellent speaker. Now, all the people on the right who are claiming that Nikki Haley is no good because she's too far to the left.

1 (45m 33s):
I should point out at this point that Elise Stefanik, her Heritage Action score is not particularly satisfying. She has a 72% Heritage action score. She is more liberal than a huge, huge number of Republicans. Her lifetime score, her is her lifetime Heritage Action score is 54%. The average house Republican is 79%. She's far more to, I mean she's from a district in New York. She's far more to the left than virtually every other member of the Republican caucus. So if you're seeking to shore up, say the Evangelical Christian vote, if that's what you're seeing to do with that, pick the way that Trump did with Mike Pence in 2016. Shan isn't gonna do it if the idea is double down on your strengths, namely look politically moderate by picking a bunch of positions that are sort of in the middle, a little wishy-washy, but you have some strength on a few of the sort of pro-Trump issues and also on foreign policy.

1 (46m 25s):
Stefanik isn't too bad to pick. Her politics, honestly look very, very similar as to Nikki Haley's. Let's just be real about that. Another candidate on the shortlist is Senator JD Vance of Ohio. He is, again, one of Trump's most outspoken defenders in his senate, GOP, full of people who are not particularly love in, in love with, with Trump's policies. The people who are sort of more paleo con oriented, really like JD Vans. JD has drawn a very interesting contrast from his early career, his early career. He was very much not into the idea of sort of a grievance politics. In fact, hillbilly Elegy is essentially a robust defense of the meritocracy. The suggestion is that when you become too def dependent on government, it actually innervates you.

1 (47m 6s):
He's moved away from that. He now talks about the idea that you do need subsidies in particular areas of the country and tariffs. You need government involvement in a lot more areas of the economy. JD has become much more NatCon than he used to be, for sure. NatCon stands for nationalist conservatives. Nationalist conservatives tend to be more like European conservatives, fine with big entitlement spending. They tend to be more isolationists to on foreign policy and they tend to be socially conservative. So they look very much like sort of right wing parties in Europe. He's also very tight with Trump. I'm not sure what that wins Trump, because Ohio is a very red state. So I'm not sure what exactly that brings him politically. Like does it bring anybody in I'm, I'm not certain that that it really does. And finally, Nikki Haley.

1 (47m 46s):
So Haley is still on that short list, and this is what's freaking out a lot of people who are sort of on that NatCon side of the aisle. Nikki is widely perceived as she's in the primaries right now, is much squishier than Trump on a wide variety of issues. She's obviously much more hawkish on foreign policy than Trump has purported to be. Although, again, one of the weird things about Trump as president is that the stuff he said sounded a lot like Pap Buchanan. The stuff that he did looked an awful lot like what Nikki Haley might do. Nikki Haley is on that short list because again, she has good approval ratings, not with Republicans, but with audiences. Generally speaking. If she were, in fact the presidential candidate against Biden and virtually every poll, she blows him out, she would compete well against somebody like Kamala Harris. It's an interesting group of people. None of them are hardcore conservatives On the political level, Vance is the one who probably could be considered most conservative on a political level, but even on on economics, he, he really is not, again, he's more NatCon in orientations that is Donald Trump's shortlist right now.

1 (48m 38s):
It'll be fascinating as we move forward to see what that shortlist starts to look like. Our guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll jump into The Ben Shapiro Show mailbag. If you're not a member, become member Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

0 (48m 57s):
Caesar's Sportsbook is the only Sportsbook app with Caesar's Rewards. That means win or lose every bet brings you closer to the types of perks only Caesar's can offer. Like hotel stays at over 50 iconic destinations. Bonus Betts daily profit boosts tickets to the game dining and so much more. Whether you're a new or existing customer, Caesar's Sportsbook is always rewarding. Must be 21 gambling problem. Call 1-800-GAMBLER Caesar's Sportsbook. Don't just spectate participate.