Boll & Branch (0s):
Folks, what does everyone do when shopping online? Well, you jump to the reviews and you see what customers actually think. Well, BOL and Branch did the hard work for you. In a recent customer survey, 96% said BOL and brand sheets get softer with every single wash, BOL and branch sheets are made from the finest 100% organic cotton threads on planet Earth. Buttery to the touch, super breathable, BOL and brand sheets are perfect for both cooler and warmer months that a luxurious signature hemp sheets were made without pesticides, formaldehyde, or other harsh chemicals, they really do get softer with every single wash. Best of all, Bo and Branch gives you a 30 night risk-free trial with free shipping returns on all orders. You're not gonna wanna return them. We love our Bo and branch product. In fact, when I'm on the road, I actually travel with their cable knit throw blanket. It is that good. Their product is just awesome. After a long day, nothing feels better than a restful night's sleep. In the softest. Most luxurious sheets sleep better at night with the softest sheets from Bull and Branch. Get 15% off your very first order when you use Code Ben at bull and branch.com. That's bull and branch spelled B-O-L-L-A-N-D branch.com promo code Ben exclusions apply C site forward details bull and branch.com.

0 (1m 1s):
One of the great qualities of dictatorship is that dictators can hold the line even as democracies start to fade. That of course, is the theory of pretty much every dictator across history when faced with a Democratic rival. That is certainly the theory of Vladimir Putin today, whether it is in Ukraine or whether it's with regard to him just killing, you know, the people who oppose him. People like Alexi Navalny. and it is becoming very clear this week that Vladimir Putin is now settling all family business. This is the week where he feels like he has the ability to do exactly what it is that he wants. And the reason he feels that way is because of a combination of splits on the right in the United States and a combination of splits on the left in the United States as well as splits in the European Coalition with regard to Russia.

0 (1m 42s):
When Vladimir Putin invaded Ukraine, there was pretty much unanimity that this was not something that the West could allow to stand, that you couldn't have Vladimir Putin simply Watting Kyiv taking over the country, killing Vladimir Zelensky, and essentially setting up a puppet dictatorship and turning Ukraine into a second Belarus. You couldn't have that because it would put Russia directly on the borders of a wide variety of NATO countries, including Hungary and Poland. You, you couldn't have it because it would certainly threaten former Soviet satellite states like Estonia, Latia, Lithuania, all of which are deeply fearful of a Putin led incursion into their territory. Finland as well, you couldn't have it because Ukraine actually is a relatively major producer of products like wheat and oil, and mostly you couldn't have it because Vladimir Putin has interests that are antithetical to those of the West.

0 (2m 29s):
And for all of the talk about over the last 25 years about how Vladimir Putin was just on the cusp of moderating how there was gonna be a moment when Vladimir Putin was welcomed into the family of nations and then he would just be nice to everybody. That never happened. Every single president of my lifetime has tried a reset with Vladimir Putin. George Dolby Bush famously looked into Putin's eyes and thought he had a sense of his soul. And then you had Barack Obama who literally sent Hillary Clinton, his Secretary of State to Moscow to give them a button that didn't actually say reset, but was supposed to be a reset button. And then you had Vladimir Putin being offered flexibility by Barack Obama in 2012 in the lead up to the 2012 election.

0 (3m 12s):
And then Donald Trump came into the office and the basic assumption was that Donald Trump was going to lead to a warm relationship with Putin. And now you have Joe Biden who came into office and was immediately pretty soft on Russia in terms of sort of geopolitical strategery as George W. Bush once put it. Now that that take has been proved false time and time again. LaMer Putin is a highly intelligent, highly skilled adversary of the United States. His interests do not align with the interests of the West. The chief Russian motivation, and this has been true for literally centuries, is territorial ambition. This has been true since the time of Peter the Great and Catherine the great, I mean If, you wanna go back even further. This has been true since Ivan the terrible in that the fact is that If, you look at Russian history or have any sense of Russian history, Russia's great leaders are always measured by the amount of land they control, which makes a certain amount of geopolitical sense.

0 (4m 2s):
If, you are Russia because again, Russia is a giant step, meaning it is open to invasion from all sides. And so if you're Russian, one of the things that historically you have attempted to do is expand your borders so as to prevent invasion from all sides. Now at a certain point that defensive justification becomes an offensive strategy in which you're invading sovereign nations that exist all around you and attempting to control top down. But Russia has always been an empire since the time of Muscovy. And now you are watching as Vladimir Putin tries to expand the boundaries of what he sees as his new empire. And he himself compared himself to Peter the Great just a couple of years ago after the invasion of Ukraine.

0 (4m 43s):
And when you watch the interview that he did with Tucker Carlson, where the first 35 minutes is dedicated to his idea of Russian claims to Ukraine, in which he actually sort of makes the claim that Russia has claims to Poland and Hungary as well. When when he says that sort of stuff, we ought to take that seriously, he's actually spelling out what he actively thinks. Now, there are a bunch of people on the left who think that Vladimir Putin is doing this because he's offended by the muscularity of the West that if only the West had been more conciliatory toward Vladimir Putin, then Russia would not in fact be an adversarial force. And everything that Vladimir Putin does is blow back to the west. That is the theory of, of people on the left who are very much vacillating with regard to what Vladimir Putin is trying to do.

0 (5m 25s):
And then there are a couple of theories on the right, and those theories range from the blowback theory, people ripping that off from John Muir Shimer, the foreign policy scholar who I think is wrong about a great many things. John Muir Shimer has sort of theorized that at its NATO's expansion that drove Putin to invade South oia, for example, in Georgia or drove Putin to invade Crimea and that on Bas region originally in 2014 and then the rest of Ukraine in 2022. Right? There's that theory, which again is coincident with the left wing blowback theory of American foreign policy that dates all the way back to people like Howard and Noam Chomsky. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Pure Talk (6m 0s):
First free, you know that word. It should mean what? It means free and Pure. Talk gets it. That's why when you switch to Pure Talk today, you'll Get a FREE Samsung 5G smartphone. There's no four line requirement, no activation fee, just a free Samsung that's built to last. So the rugged screen, quick charging battery and top tier data security qualifying plans start at just 35 bucks a month for unlimited talk text, 15 gigs of data and a mobile hotspot. Pure Talk gives you phenomenal coverage on America's most dependable 5G network. It's the same coverage you know and love, but for half the price of the other guys, Pure Talk saves the average family almost a thousand dollars a year. I challenge you to choose a company that share your values. Let Pure talk's expert US customer service team help you make the switch today. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro to claim your eligibility for your free brand new Samsung 5G smartphone start saving on wireless today. Again, go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro and switch to my cell phone company. I'm been using Pure Talk for years. That coverage is great, it's good enough for me, it's definitely good enough for you as well. Go check them out right now at Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro.

0 (7m 1s):
And then there is a theory that Russia is actually a bulwark against secular leftism. That Russia actively is, is a highly religious country that is, that is very, that anti much of the left wing ideology with regard to say gender and sex and sexuality that the West has fallen for. And so they've built up in their minds a lot of people the idea that because Russians are socially conservative as a general matter which they are, that this is somehow what Vladimir Putin represents as opposed to he has a population that is socially conservative. And also that is not his actual ambition. His actual ambition is not in defense of say, social conservatism. His ambition is in defense of Russian territorial ambition.

0 (7m 42s):
It it's a category error. In other words, for many people on the right, many of you on the right have made that same category error. For example, with Sha real law countries in the Islamic world, it suggested that because those countries are quote unquote socially conservative, that somehow those countries have a commonality with say American conservatism, American Christian conservatism. And the answer there is no, they really don't. Their ambitions are not the same as your ambitions. And what this really reveals is a schism in the United States broadly WR and in the West, broadly written Europe as well, a schism about whether the west has any sense of internal solidity. What are the values of the West? Because if Putin is able to split the west on the basis of perceived values or perceived anti westernism, and that says there are a lot of people in the West who really don't like the West very much on the one hand, and a lot of people in the West who believe that the greater threat to the United States might be their neighbors who disagree with them about social politics as opposed to people like Vladimir Putin.

0 (8m 36s):
Not that Vladimir Putin is a direct threat to people in the United States like right this instant. But he's a very large indirect threat to people in the United States because geopolitics actually matters when you cut off shipping route, when you destroy the sources of international trade, when you threaten American allies. These are things that actually will matter to American citizens writ large. Okay? So Vladimir Putin is figuring that the history of the United States since World War II is If. you can split the American public, you can win. and it doesn't matter how weak you are, all you have to do is outlast. Outlasting is the strategy. This has been true since Ho Chi Minh in Vietnam. It was true of the Taliban and Afghanistan. It was true of Sharia law, Iranian forces in Iraq, If, you can outlast the United States, you'll win.

0 (9m 21s):
And the time for outlasting is shrinking and shrinking and shrinking. So it used to be that in order to outlast the American public, you would have to wait a decade. And now because of the velocity of social media and because of the ability of people to see these arguments in real time and split from each other and polarize very quickly, what you're seeing is that the West is sapped of its will incredibly quickly on nearly every conflict when there's a conflict with true evil, you see Western powers immediately leap to fight the evil and then pretty quickly start to doubt themselves and figure, okay, I think we're done here. We need to move on with our lives. Now this would be a time when political leadership actually mattered, but there's a complete dearth of political leadership on both sides of the political aisle on these matters.

0 (10m 3s):
Joe Biden is utterly incapable of articulating the rationale why Americans should care if Russia invades Ukraine. He does not. He does not even attempt to articulate it. He just spouts words like democracy without taking full stock of the actual situation for Americans. 'cause Americans look at Joe Biden, say things like democracy and they say, wait, hold up a second. Ukraine, first of all is an extra, an extraordinarily imperfect democracy, right? The Freedom House score for Ukraine is like 39. Russia is like seven, but Ukraine is like 39. So it's not like an amazing wellspring of democracy. It's a burgeoning democracy at best. And so when you say democracy over and over, Americans are like, well, is that really what Ukraine is about? And then Americans say, well if, if that's what UK Ukraine is really about, then why are we allies with say, Saudi Arabia?

0 (10m 47s):
'cause Saudi Arabia obviously is not a democracy, by the way. A lot of our allies who are not democracy start to get very nervous when they hear democracy talk coming from Joe Biden because they're like, okay, so whatcha gonna Arab Spring us over here? The real reason why the United States is pursuing a defense of Ukraine is because we have geostrategic interests into grading. The Russian military capacity to expand beyond its own borders, threatened shipping lanes, threatening supply resources, increasing the power of enemies of America and America's allies. Russia has formed a defacto coalition with China and Iran at this point. And that defacto coalition threatens America's allies all around the world and threatens freedom of the seas, for example, everywhere from the Taiwan Straits to the Straits of Malacca, to the Red Sea, to the Straits of Horus, right?

0 (11m 32s):
That that coalition, it's extremely dangerous and the United States does have a geopolitical interest in downgrading that. But that's not something that Joe Biden can explain because he can't say words anymore and probably doesn't understand the words that he is saying right now. And on the right, there's a split about whether these things even matter. There's this bizarre idea that has arisen on large parts of the right, that America can become archic, that suddenly global economics don't matter at all. That if these, that if, if things go to hell in a hand basket with regard to the freedom of the seas in these particular areas, it won't affect American citizens in any way. Lemme just explain. If shipping starts to be truly endangered the way that it is in the Red Sea in any of the other areas that I just mentioned, the amount of money that Americans are going to pay is going to be so much larger than whatever checks we are signing to Ukraine.

0 (12m 16s):
It will make our head spin. If, you loved the inflation of the first couple of years of the Biden era. Wait until Freedom of the Seas goes away. It's something that you are going to enjoy. Okay? So in any case, Vladimir Putin knows all of this because all he has to do is just keep pressing. All he has to do is keep pressing. And so he's taking full advantage. He sees the splits and he's exploiting those splits, right? He's a smart player. Vladimir Putin is a smart geopolitical player who sees foreign policy as a zero sum game and no attempt to appease Vladimir Putin through Happy Talk is going to work again. I went through the various administrations in the United States since Vladimir Putin took office in 2000. Every single one of those administrations has tried a Deante policy with Vladimir Putin, and all of them failed because guess what? Every one of those administrations ends, every one of them has a shift in Congress and Vladimir Putin's still there ruling in unitary fashion.

0 (13m 4s):
The downside of dictatorship is it generally means a poorly run country that has no feedback loops for improvement of the country. You can list certain countries, by the way, that have had quasi dictatorships that have actually run fairly well. That was true for example of, of Singapore for several decades. But it's very rare, more likely it turns into a corrupt oligarchy in which the leader uses his position in order to enrich himself and his friends in order to ensure his own power and destroys his adversaries. And one of the best ways to maintain your own power is to destroy things like internal property rights and political freedoms. because if you give property rights, that may lead to the creation of a monetary base from which a threat can can mount against you.

0 (13m 44s):
So Vladimir Putin has been very, very bad for the Russian people. If, you don't believe me. All you have to do is is look at the various GSz per capita in the former Soviet satellite states, GDP per capita right now in states like Poland, right? Poland is a former Soviet satellite state, GDP per capita. There is about $18,000 GDP per capita in Estonia. A former Soviet satellite state is $28,000. GDP per capita in Lafayette, a former Soviet satellite state, $21,000. GDP per capita in Russia right now is $12,000. Somewhere in that neighborhood, Glen Rep Putin has not been a boon to Russia. Okay, putting all that aside again, Glen Rep Putin is winning right now because all he feels he has to do is AtLast.

0 (14m 30s):
Not only that, the weaponry that we are shipping to Ukraine in defense is much more expensive than the weaponry that Vladimir Putin is using in offense in Ukraine. Get to more on this in just one moment.

Tax Network USA (14m 41s):
First, are you struggling with bad taxes or unfiled returns this year? Well, I've got some bad news. The IRS is escalating collections by adding 20,000 new agents in these challenging times, your best defense use tax network USA, along with hiring thousands of new agents and field officers, the IRS has kicked off 2024 by sending over 5 million pay up letters to those who have unfiled tax returns or balances owed. These guys are not your friends. Don't waive your rights and speak with those agents on your own without backup tax network. USA is a trusted tax relief firm and they've saved over a billion dollars in back taxes for their clients. They can help you secure the best deal possible. Whether you owe 10 grand or 10 million bucks, they can help, whether it's business or personal taxes, whether you have the means to pay or whether you're on a fixed income tax network can help finally resolve your tax burdens once and for all Seize control of your financial future. Right now, don't let tax issues overpower you. Contact Tax Network USA for immediate relief and expert guidance. Call 1 802 4 5 6,000 or visit tn USA dot com slash Shapiro. Turn to Tax Network USA. Find your path to financial peace of mind. That's tn USA dot com slash Shapiro.

0 (15m 44s):
The reason that Vladimir Putin is able to ramp up his production, which can last probably effectively another two to three years at the levels that he is currently producing, they're spending like 6% of their GDP on defense, by which we mean offense in places like Ukraine. That's unsustainable for an economy that's truly unworkable in Russia. They do not have a workable economy. It is 50% probably based on oil profits. They, they do have trading partners, of course, outside the West, but have they been economically damaged by the war in Ukraine? Absolutely. It's damaged everybody. But. it has certainly hit Russia. You can see it in terms of the inflation rate. But the reality is that Russia can produce kind of crappy old machinery and ammo, and it costs a lot less money than defensive machinery.

0 (16m 29s):
By the way, you see this all over the globe, right? It costs kamas like 50 bucks to to create a cat usha rocket that they can shoot into an Israeli city, and it costs Israel like $50,000 every time they fire an iron dome. That sort of stuff happens all the time across the globe. It's one of the reasons why the Houthis are being effective in the Red Sea right now. All offensive measures that are basic and dumb cost, almost nothing Defensive measures which have to be sophisticated to stop the offensive measures are very, very expensive, which is why from a financial point of view, a be offense is better than defense from a financial point of view during war. In the moment right now, destroying the enemy's capacity to make war is actually easier than defending against the war that they're attempting to fight against you. Again, all of this is just predicate to the fact that Vladimir Putin really is feeling his oats right now.

0 (17m 12s):
So not only did he almost certainly kill Alexion Navalny, I say almost certainly, because you know, you try to be a little careful about these things. But he, he killed Alexian Alexion. Navalny did not die of natural causes in a prison at the age of 47 after being poisoned by Vladimir Putin just about four years ago, and then immediately arrested upon his return to Russia, sentenced to a Gulag for 30 plus years, and then he randomly dies. That is not the way that works, especially not for Vladimir Putin who makes a habit of killing his political opponents. And in fact, unsurprisingly, the Kremlin has now rejected international calls according to Axios for an independent investigation into Russian opposition leader Alexia Navalny, death in prison Naval. These allies and family, of course, say that they suspect high level Russian authorities were involved in his death, which of course is absolutely true.

0 (17m 56s):
I'm sure the European Council said, Mr. Navalny, unexpected and shocking. Death is yet another sign of the accelerating and systematic repression in Russia. Kremlin has wrote, they've refused to release his body because they're afraid that if they release his body, then they're gonna discover the poison on him or the bruises on him, or the broken bones, or whatever it is. The country's prison services said he died suddenly after a walk. They claimed he felt unconscious after feeling sick and could not be resuscitated. Of course, all of this has sort of outsized impact in the West because there was a very famous HBO documentary made about Alexia Navalny, that one best picture foreign, best, best documentary at the Oscars just a couple of years ago. It is a very, very compelling documentary all about his poisoning and his attempt to track down the people who poisoned him, which he actually does.

0 (18m 41s):
He actually calls one of his poisoners on the phone and gets them to admit the whole thing on the phone. The very tail end of that documentary, Alexia Navalny actually is asked, what is your message to the Russian people in case you're murdered? And here's what he had to say.

1 (18m 57s):
He

0 (18m 57s):
Says, listen, have something very obvious to tell you.

1 (18m 60s):
You're

0 (18m 60s):
Not allowed to give up. If they decide to kill me. It means that we are incredibly strong. We need to utilize this power to not give up to remember we're a huge power

1 (19m 19s):
That

0 (19m 19s):
Is being impressed by these bad dude. We don't realize how strong we actually are. The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good people to do nothing. So don't be inactive. Okay? And then he was murdered. So either his murder is a reflection of Putin feeling threatened, or his murder is a reflection of the fact that Putin thinks he can get away with nearly anything at this point. and it seems more like the latter, especially because they're not being shy about anything that they're doing right now. Vladimir Putin, according to the Russian News Agency, the Russian government has now filed charges against Oleg Navalny, who is the, who is the brother of Alexi Navalny, they said, wanted under an article of the criminal code.

0 (20m 7s):
They did not specify what article Navani's brother was even wanted under. They're just arresting Alexi Navani's relatives who are in Russia right now in an attempt to presumably quash any blowback from their decision to kill Alexi Navalny. Not just that. On Tuesday, Russia's main security agent agency said that they had arrested another American citizen. This person's a dual citizen of Russia and the United States on accusations of committing state treason by raising funds for Ukraine. The FSB identified the detainee as a 33-year-old woman who lives in Los Angeles. Apparently she had raised $51 for a Ukrainian organization that bought weapons and other equipment for Ukraine's military. That's because she had sent 50 bucks to RASO for Ukraine and New York based nonprofit organization that sends assistance to the country.

0 (20m 53s):
And the FSB released via Russian State Media, a video that showed the woman wearing a white hat that covered her eyes being handcuffed and escorted by masked security service officers if convicted. She faces 20 years in prison. And of course, this makes perfect sense considering that Russia is making just a bounty off of American citizens. They kidnap. If they arrest Britney Griner for being foolish enough to fly to Russia with pot in her bag, and then they throw her in prison, they can get like an actual high level Russian arms dealer released in return for that. They're still holding the Wall Street Journal reporter, Evan Gerk Wich. They, they have no compunction about just randomly kidnapping American citizens that this is no problem for them.

0 (21m 33s):
Why? Because they're not afraid of the blowback at all. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

My Patriot Supply (21m 39s):
First, in a world filled with uncertainties, you should be prepared for any possibility. You need my Patriot Supply. My Patriot Supply is your trusted partner for emergency preparedness. They're the country's largest preparedness company. They're more than equipped to stock your shelves. Whether it's a natural disaster, a sudden emergency, or unforeseen circumstances, my Patriot supply's high quality food storage solutions ensure you and your loved ones are always well fed no matter what comes your way. If, you wanna be prepared for anything you need to visit with Ben dot com right now, you'll get 60 bucks off a much needed four week emergency supply from my Patriot Supply. Their four week emergency food supply provides delicious breakfast lunches and dinners that last up to 25 years in storage. You can even customize your supply with a mega protein kit with real meat or gluten-free options. These kits provide over 2000 calories every day. They're simple to prepare. Just add water and heat and then eat If you order by 3:00 PM Your food kit will ship fast on the same day with free shipping. Invest in your safety and wellbeing by securing your food storage today. Go to prepare with Ben dot com. Start your four week emergency supply. Again, go to prepare with Ben dot com right now. That's prepare with Ben dot com to get started.

0 (22m 40s):
Again, a Russian pilot who defected to Ukraine has now been apparently murdered. According to the New York Times, Maxima, Koff pulled off a daring escape last summer when he defected to Ukraine and handed his military helicopter over to Ukrainian Commandos in exchange for half a million bucks. Ukraine trumpeted the defection as a major coup in Vladimir Putin's Russia. He was guilty of treason. Ukrainian intelligence officials warned uzman of his life's in danger. They urged him not to leave the country. Instead, he moved with his money to a small resort town on Spain's Mediterranean coast. And now he's been found murdered. He's 28 or was 28. Two Spanish police officials with knowledge of the case said, the body of a man found riddled with bullets. Last week in the coastal town of Village, Josa belonged to Mr.

0 (23m 19s):
Kouzmanoff. Andre Tak, representative of Ukraine's military Intel said he could confirm the fact of his death. There was no information about the possible assailants or motive. So very difficult to imagine that this person was not, I mean, riddled with bullets in a random town in Spain sounds pretty Putin E to to me. I mean, again, considering that this is a thing that Vladimir Putin does send hi his SFSB to do. And again, it's Putin is exploiting the divisions in the West. That's what America's enemies would do, right? It's what, it's what any country would do. Every country who sees itself as a geopolitical opponent of another country hopes to exploit internal divisions. The difference is that in America, we have a democracy.

0 (24m 1s):
And so internal divisions are pretty obvious and clear. We have a free press. Same thing is true in Europe for all the problems we have in America or Europe. They're not remotely the same kind of problems. They're a different in category problem from what's happening over in Russia. President Biden had promised that there would be significant repercussions against Russia if Navalny was killed. Unclear exactly what those repercussions are going to be. Putin is figuring he can withstand anything at this point. He's got his money inside the country. He is got his dachas, he doesn't care. According to Yahoo News, the Biden administration will impose major sanctions on Russia in response to the death of Navalny. John Kirby Whitehouse National Security Communications advisor, said The news sanctions are designed to hold Russia accountable for what happened to Navalny, as well as all its actions over the course of this vicious and brutal war that is raged in Ukraine for two years.

0 (24m 45s):
Unclear what that's gonna be. Apparently they're gonna unveil the sanctions package on Friday. The question, of course, is how has that worked so far? Because of course, the economic sanctions have not done tremendous damage to Putin or his inner circle. The the realistic answer here is that there are actually things that, that Biden could do. this is one of the things that's truly amazing about Biden. He will use executive power to try to cram down a vaccine mandate on 80 million Americans using the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. He will attempt illegally to alleviate student loan debt by simply deciding that you no longer have to pay it using his executive power. But the one area of American law where the president does have tremendous outsized power is in foreign policy, and Biden barely uses it.

0 (25m 29s):
He won't do it to shut down the border. He won't do it to actually take measures he could take to punish, for example, the Russians. Instead, he weak need and his weak need, because again, virtually everyone on all sides in the United States is incredibly divided. But the situation highlights is really not the evil of Vladimir Putin. It's the weakness of the West. According to Brett Stevens writing over the New York Times, he says, there are four broad approaches that could theoretically be used by Biden with regard to Putin, according to Bill Brower, who's an investor in political activist who has a really shocking book that he wrote about his experiences facing down Putin. He was a, a financier who worked in Russia for years and years and years and, and then was targeted because one of his business partner was Sergei Magnitsky, who was killed in prison by the, by the Putin regime.

0 (26m 20s):
So, so he has a suggestion. His suggestion is that you could enact legislation to confiscate frozen Russian bank reserves for the defense and reconstruction of Ukraine theoretically. Now, everybody's been very unwilling to do that because they're afraid that there would be a flight from dollar assets if that sort of thing happened, which you understand, right? If, you are a foreign actor and you're afraid that the United States is gonna confiscate your money if it's held in, held in American dollars. This could harm the American dollar. So that, that is a risky move. With that said, you may have to take those sorts of risks, If, you hope to actually punish a dictator. Theoretically, you could back dissonance in more significant ways and stop, stop at these hostage trades.

0 (27m 2s):
If, you continue with these hostage trades. Putin is, he's just gonna take more hostages. And finally, you could actually do the thing that Biden really will not do, and that is jack up American production in the oil and natural gas sector. Really rat that up. And this is, it's an opportunity, frankly, on for America's economy, the fact that the fact that Europe is now cut off from Russian oil supplies would be an opportunity for the United States to jack up its LNG production and start shipping all of that stuff over to Europe. Instead, Joe Biden is so enthralled to his radical left on the environment that he refuses to do any of that sort of stuff. That's more on this in just one moment.

Grand Canyon University (27m 39s):
First Grand Canyon University. It's a private Christian university in beautiful Phoenix, Arizona. GCU believes that our creator has endowed all of us with certain unalienable rights to life, liberty, pursuit of happiness, and they believe in equal opportunities. And that the American dream starts with purpose. GCU will equip you to serve others in ways that promote your flourishing, which will create a ripple effect of transformation for generations to come. Whether you're pursuing a bachelor's, master's, or a doctoral degree, grand Canyon University online, on campus and hybrid learning environments are designed to help you achieve your degree. Find your purpose today at Grand Canyon University private Christian, affordable visit gcu.edu. That's gcu.edu.

0 (28m 15s):
But meanwhile, you have people like Nancy Pelosi and she's spending her days, the arising battle of Vladimir Putin is paying Donald Trump. Like, what? How is this useful? How,

2 (28m 23s):
What do you think? We're all wondering this question speaker, what do you think Putin has on him? I mean, it sure seems like something, as you've said a few times, given that he refuses to criticize him, that he seems to be a fan boy of him. Are, are you worried all

3 (28m 39s):
Well, you know, during the Mueller,

2 (28m 41s):
Go ahead. Sorry. Go ahead.

3 (28m 43s):
First of all, first of all, we must be sure that he does not step one foot into the White House, not as President or not as anything. Now we have someone who had the honor of serving in the White House, didn't consider it an honor, didn't consider his oath of office to protect and defend the Constitution. And on this week, speaking out the way he did about n Navalny shows you that he is person without values. He looks like he's gonna be a person without dollars either, but the values are what concern us.

2 (29m 20s):
Yes, the the dollars may,

3 (29m 22s):
I don't know what he has on them, but I think it's probably financial. I think it's probably financial. Either something financially he has on or something on the come.

0 (29m 31s):
Okay, so now it's just speculation about Trump and Putin as opposed to, you know, actually not slow walking the aid to Ukraine as Joe Biden has done for literal years, taking the middle position on everything. And this is the nature of Joe Biden. Joe Biden is the president, which means this is happening on his watch. All of the talk about Republicans in Congress, yeah, Republicans in Congress are a mess. There is no question about that. They cannot tell their ass from their elbow. I mean, that just is the, that is why they've now rotated through two speakers and a bunch of speaker candidates in the course of like a year. They, they're a mess. With that said, Joe Biden is the current president of the United States, I noticed, and it is under Joe Biden, the Ukrainian invasion took place, and it's under Joe Biden that the American will to, to back Ukraine has faded.

0 (30m 15s):
The power of the bully pulpit would be a thing. But Joe Biden has failed to use it, and he's not capable of using it, and he has no moral clarity anyway. and it turns out that foreign policy issues affect each other when you a abandon Afghanistan. That has impact on what Russia does in Ukraine. And by the way, when Russia sees these sorts of half measures that you are taking with regards to Israel and Hamas, they feel the same way. Russia is an open ally of Hamas at this point. They've invited Hamas to Moscow to talk about situation over there. And meanwhile, the Democrats are fully divided on Israel and whether to support, you know, America's Democratic ally in the Middle East that provides America with intelligence, resources, and acts essentially as a land-based air aircraft carrier for United States interests in the Middle East.

0 (30m 55s):
And, and we're telling them, you can't defend yourselves against Kamas to the extent that you take out Kamas next in, in Rafa City. This is, that is what, like the Biden administration is completely split on this sort of stuff. According to Politico, the Israel Kamas conflict is opening new rifts in the House Democratic caucus with the second congressional progressive caucus quitting the group over the war, and representative Rashida Tali backing an activist campaign to undermine President Joe Biden in the Michigan Democratic primary. The new development to underscore that more than four months in Israel's military operations in Gaza are still causing a painful rift within the Democratic party. Well, I mean, why, why? I mean, it, it's not Israel's military operations, Inc.

0 (31m 35s):
Like this thing was not initiated by Israel. It was initiated by Hamas committing the greatest atrocity against Jews since World War ii. And yet this is somehow shattering the Democratic coalition, largely because again, the, the Democratic Party is split between their crazy wing and their actual sort of traditional base, which tends to be more pro-Israel, the younger insane generation that has been trained on nonsense by the garbage reporters at the Washington Post and New York Times. They continue to push the Biden administration to simply concede to Hamas. And so what you have is a split inside the administration. You'll have members of the Biden administration out there talking about how they need to put pressure on Israel. And then you'll simultaneously have John Kirby out there talking about how Israel is doing its best to avoid civilian casualties.

0 (32m 17s):
They're, they're, they're speaking two languages to two different groups of people. It's wild. And so you see these two things come into conflict for the Democratic party, and Russia looks at this and they say, look, you guys can't even get your act together. I'm like the most morally obvious conflict in modern world right now. The conflict between, again, a democratic ally of the United States that was attacked in a fashion that for it sized dwarfs nine 11, and you can't even get on board with them. Extirpating a terrorist group. You can't, like, why would Russia think that they can't outlast? And you can see the split. And so Nancy Pelosi was ripping on Benjamin Netanyahu because this is the way that Democrats have tried to square the circle.

0 (32m 57s):
They've tried to suggest that they support Israel. They just don't like Netanyahu. The problem is none of that makes any sense because the reality is Israel has a war cabinet right now. They have a unity government right now, all the talk about how Bibi Netanyahu is standing in the way of a Palestinian state. No, the Palestinians have stood in the way of a Palestinian state since literally the inception of the peace process. The so-called peace process, which, which was a joke. Again, diplomacy can't incept things into reality. You can't just wander your way into peace. That's not the way any of that works. And, and as I say, again, the policy of the state of Israel with regards to the Palestinians right now is a unity policy. In fact, today the Israeli CSET voted on a, on a proposition.

0 (33m 38s):
That proposition was with regard to the possibility of a Palestinian state. And what the proposition actually said, it was resolution Israel outright rejects international dictates about a permanent arrangement with the Palestinians. Such an arrangement will be reached only through direct negotiations between the sides without preconditions. Israel continue to oppose unilateral recognition of a Palestinian state. Such recognition following the October 7th massacre will be an enormous prize for terror, a prize, the likes of which have never been seen and will prevent any future peace agreement. That was a resolution approved by Netanyahu and Benny GSz, his chief rival. Also worth noting that thing passed in the Knesset with 99 out of 120 votes. 99.

0 (34m 18s):
Okay? So that is a, that is a universal proposition in Israel. But Pelosi and the left, they're trying to appease their left wing base by blaming Netanyahu. But then they're asking an obvious question, so then why are you supporting the Israeli government? And they can't answer that question because again, they're constantly splitting the baby.

4 (34m 36s):
Isn't the danger for the US that If you don't like what Israel is doing? And the president has made it clear that some of what Israel is doing, he doesn't like. That's right. And and you go on supplying them with hardware to do those things. You own this operation every bit as much as they do, don't you?

3 (34m 52s):
No, we don't. We don't. We have always supported Israel as our national security friend, largely because it was in our interest to do so, largely because it was in do so. We had shared values that only democracy in the region. The behavior of Netanyahu is, in my view, inexcusable in terms of how it has affected the collateral damage to children and families and the rest. But nobody can take away the right of any country to defend itself. It has been brutally attacked in that way.

0 (35m 27s):
Okay? That that is an absurdity. That is not the policy of Netanyahu. It's the policy of the entire war cabinet. And Israel has currently lost about 240 soldiers in Gaza when they have complete air superiority. They don't need to do any of that. They're doing that to avoid collateral damage. But again, America's enemies, including Iran, Russia, Iran, China, they see American weakness. They see Western divisions and they're exploiting that weakness and division right now, which is why Hout the attacks, for example, in the Red Sea, are working according to the Wall Street Journal, a cargo ship is at risk of sinking in the Gulf of Aidan after being hit by a Yemen based Houthis missile in the most significant strike since the Iran back group started launching attacks last fall, the increasingly audacious attacks come despite weeks of US airstrikes and highlight the challenges of deterring the group.

0 (36m 9s):
You can't deter them, you have to destroy them. 'cause obviously they're not deterred, they're terrorists. Persistent Houthis strikes are raising new questions for the Biden administration about how to bring the attacks to halt and prevent the continuing war in the Gaza Strip from fueling a more destabilizing regional conflict. The answer there is you let Israel destroy its enemies and you destroy your own enemies, and that is how you actually win wars. But if the West refuses to win wars, well then its enemies will. In just one second, we'll get to how all this is impacting Joe Biden's reelect efforts. The answer things are not great.

Jeremy's Razors (36m 38s):
First President's Day is a time to honor the great leaders of the nation who shaped our history and our values, plus Jimmy Carter. But you don't have to be a president to look like one. Jeremy's Razors are made with the finest materials and craftsmanship. They come in a variety of packages to suit your needs. Check out the Founders kit available in Precision five, featuring five blades and a precision flip back trimmer for superior accessibility around the nose, ears, and sideburns. Or the smooth six with six blades for a smooth, long lasting shave. Each includes a travel case, matte tungsten, handle green tea and menthol shave cream and post shave ball. The best part, Jeremy's has 20% off SITEWIDE during our Presidents Day sale. It's magic. Don't miss this chance to save big and get the best shave of your life at 20% off right now at jeremy's Razors dot com.

0 (37m 18s):
Okay, meanwhile, so how's all of this chaos and inability to make a decision affecting Joe Biden's poll chances? Well, they're not good. A new Sienna College poll actually has Joe Biden under 50% in New York. In New York. And by the way, this poll is insane. It shows that Jews in New York, according to this poll, I mean this is a real outlier poll, so we'll see if it's real or not. 53% of Jews in New York say they would vote for Trump, which is an astonishing number. That's an astonishing number because remember the vast majority of the Jewish community by Jewish community, I mean, people who are born into a Jewish family, for example, are not observant, do not care about Jewish precepts, do not care about Israel. There is a, an increasing percentage of Jews who are realizing that the left really, really don't like Jews a lot.

0 (38m 2s):
But with that said, that is an amazing number. Usually in every election, 70, 75, 80% of Jews vote for the Democrats because the vast majority of Jews are secular leftists who have no relationship with their religion at all. Okay? But according to this polling data, again, the suburbs are split. 39. 39 men are are 47 40 in New York for Donald Trump according to Thiss poll. You know, whether that is true or not. The bottom line is that Joe Biden is, is in a seriously weakened position in his reelect effort. Again, the the latest head to hold head-to-head polls between Trump and Biden continue to show Trump with a durable lead. A Rasmussen report poll that came out just last week shows Trump up 6 47 to 41.

0 (38m 46s):
Emerson has him up, 45, 44 Morning consult has him up. 45, 41. In other words, Joe Biden seems to be stuck in the low forties, and it, there's not a lot he can do to change that, especially because, again, the thing that's reinforcing weakness on the world stage is the fact that the president is physically weak. It's like he's the physical manifestation of his own policies. So yesterday Joe Biden was, was facing down the stairs of Air Force One again, and it went real poorly. These are the short stairs again. They've, they've tried to have him load on the short stairs that he has fewer stairs to trip on. Boom, they boom twice, twice. He almost trips on the stairs.

0 (39m 26s):
So again, he keeps falling up the stairs. Things are going really, really well. And then a reporter asked Joe Biden if Gavin Newsom is gonna replace him on the ticket, and Joe Biden started speaking Swahili or something.

6 (39m 37s):
President, good afternoon, sir. Go California about coming up 2024. Does Gavin need to stand by?

7 (39m 45s):
Are you ready? Yes, sir. Well, I'm looking for him. I'm looking at you. We're looking at you, sir. Hey, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. What I came to tell you was I told you we'd be announcing sanctions on Russia. We'll have a major package announced on Friday, and I'll be happy to sit with you all while doing that. Okay.

0 (40m 7s):
Okay. So he's asked about Gavin new 70. He, whoa, whoa, whoa,

7 (40m 10s):
Whoa,

0 (40m 10s):
Whoa, whoa. A squirrel. Things are going amazingly well for him. Again, the reality is that his vacillation, his uncertainty, his mushiness on policy in the foreign realm is hurting the country. His wild leftism on policy in the domestic realm is hurting the country. And all of it comes together in the figurehead of an 81-year-old man who's no longer sentient and trips up the stairs. All this is really bad. So what exactly is Biden's strategy? His strategy is highlight Trump, which means, once again, folks, If, you wish Donald Trump to win. You know, and I'm somebody who win a Trump versus Biden race wishes Donald Trump to win If. you wish Trump to win, then he needs to ratchet down the crazy, the entire campaign for Joe Biden is going to be Donald.

0 (40m 50s):
Trump is crazy. Yes, I'm old. Yes, I'm senile. I guess my policy sucks, but he's totally crazy. That is going to be Biden's argument. I'm not saying that Biden is saying that here was CNN reporting that yesterday.

8 (41m 2s):
President Biden is ordering his campaign to get far more aggressive when it comes to his likely opponent. This brand new reporting from CNN's MJ Lee is that Biden personally instructed his top campaign aide recently to spend even more time painting Trump as on the hinged and calling out his inflammatory rhetoric. Two sources tell MJ that the thrust of Biden's instruction was to significantly ramp up the campaign's efforts to highlight the crazy s that that Trump says in public. CNN's MJ Lee is at the White House, I guess I can say the S word, but maybe too early on the West Coast, at least mj.

9 (41m 42s):
Yeah, Dana. You know, I think this reporting gives us some interesting insight into how the president himself personally views his campaign strategy. What I was told by sources is, as you said, president Biden instructing personally some of his top campaign aids to essentially be even more aggressive in highlighting some of Trump's most inflammatory and wild comments.

0 (42m 7s):
Again, that is biden's only strategies. The only thing that he can apply at this point, which means that it's incumbent on Trump to say fewer things. Just let Biden just let him wither on the vine out there. That's all, that's all Donald Trump has to do. So Donald Trump did an interview with Laura Ingram last night on Fox News, and he said some good things as always, there's some good Trump and there's some bad Trump. Stop providing material to your enemies. First rule of politics, don't interrupt your opponents when they're making a mistake. So here's what Trump said that was good. He said he wants a debate with Joe Biden. Now, Joe Biden ain't gonna give him debate. He's not gonna give him debate for a variety of reasons. He's gonna be able to say that, that Trump wouldn't give anybody else a debate in the primaries, which is true. He's also gonna say that he's not going to debate somebody who, who tried to steal the election of 2020 after losing it and who's, who's now going to be convicted of crimes and, and all this kind of stuff.

0 (42m 54s):
That's what Biden is going to say. But Trump consistently calling for a debate and Biden running from one is a bad look for Biden. Here was Trump yesterday on, on Laura's show.

10 (43m 3s):
When you challenge him to a debate regularly on focus specific topics, in other words, so it's not a wide ranging just one debate on foreign public. Well,

11 (43m 12s):
I'll do it right now in your show. I'll challenge him right now, and I we can do you, you can do anybody you want. I I'll take anybody from CNN, which is doing very poorly in the ratings. By the way, you've probably not, I, I'll take anybody because I think you have an obligation in this case. You really have an obligation to debate.

0 (43m 31s):
Okay? So that's a good line for Trump. What is a bad line for Trump? Is for Trump to discourage people from using mail-in ballots again, have we not learned our lesson at this point? If you're the Republican party, you should be encouraging your people to use mail-in ballots. Anything that gets them to vote would be the thing that you should be telling them to do. Donald Trump told people not to vote by mail in 2020, and he lost if he had told people to vote by mail, there is a better than 50% chance that he would've won because that was a very close election in the swing states. And Republicans refused to vote by mail because Donald Trump told them they should not vote by mail. And the problem is this, even if 90% of the people that Donald Trump told not to vote by mail, showed up on polling day and voted 10% didn't, and those votes were never entered into the ballot box.

0 (44m 18s):
Why would you do this? You know, where Republicans have won broad victories in places like Florida where the governor of the state DeSantis, he actually said, yeah, go vote by mail. Do whatever you have to do to vote, vote legally, do what you need to do, vote early, but vote for us. That's how you win. But here is Donald Trump again, downgrading mail-in vote. Why? Why? Unless you're actually gonna fight the law in the courts and have laws changed. No overturn about mail-in voting. You have to play by the rules that are on the field right now. You can't argue about the rules while the game is in process. That's not, that's not helpful or useful. It means you are going to lose If. you do that sort of stuff. Here is Trump ripping on mail-in ballots. Laura's trying to save him. By the way, and that was a lot of the interview last night, is is is Laura Ingram trying to save Trump from himself?

0 (44m 59s):
And Trump being like, nah, I'm gonna run directly into that tree. That tree looks amazing. Let's do it.

11 (45m 5s):
If, you have mail-in voting, you automatically have fraud. If, you have no, okay, well there's mail-in voting in Florida and you won. Huge. That's, that's right. If, you have it, you're going to have fraud. But you want, because you don't have any, when you go into a voting place, like you go into one in a, in a properly run state, they look at you, they give you, give voter id, you give all sorts of identification. I mean, it would be very hard to cheat in a Masco when you send out millions like California, I think they send out 36 million ballots. They don't have a voting booth in the whole place and then millions of ballots come back. Nobody knows where they're coming from, right? But what are you gonna do about it? The way you win is by swamping them.

0 (45m 46s):
Slumping them with what? In day balloting, it ain't gonna work. That's not how this works. If Democrats really up the ante on ballot harvesting in states where it is legal and they push mail-in voting, they're going to win. Okay? This is the why, why? And that's not even the crazy stuff, okay? That's just the strategic silliness, okay? That, that, that, that makes no sense. It's politically foolish. Encourage your own voters to vote. Why is this so difficult? Tell your voters to vote however it's legal to vote. Go vote. This is not hard. Okay? But that's not actually the stuff that that's going to, to play into Joe Biden's argument that Donald Trump is a crazy person and Donald Trump has so many things going for him in this election cycle at this point.

0 (46m 26s):
Namely Joe Biden is senile, namely Joe Biden is an awful president on every front. Namely he is in fact being persecuted by Joe Biden's, department of Justice and a wide variety of other public officials who are misusing and abusing their office to target him. All of that is true, but you know what? He doesn't have to do, for example, compare that to what just happened to Alexia na Olney. Again, I'm gonna keep saying this because it's true. All of the things happening to Donald Trump are unjust and they are wrong and they're not on the order of him being taken off a plane arrested, put in prison, and then murdered, that's not the same thing bad there. There are different, there are different versions of bad and he doesn't even have to, this is the problem. If he just said that he's being targeted unfairly, it'd be true if he was saying that it is wrong in abuse of the Constitution for the DOJ to do what it's doing.

0 (47m 14s):
Absolutely true. Why then go the extra step of comparing yourself to a guy who was just murdered in Russian prison. Is that helpful? Forget about whether it's it's true or false, is it helpful? And here, here was Trump yesterday doing this.

10 (47m 28s):
Now in this New York civil fraud case, this judge Arthur Geron ruled against you for actually almost a half a billion dollars plus interest that runs every day. When I first read this, like $87,000 a day, how would you put up that kind of money? Because you have a bond to put up. Even if If you appeal, you gotta put up escrow money. That's, it's a lot of, a lot of

11 (47m 53s):
Deal. It is a form of Navalny. It is a form of communism or fascism. The guy's a nut job. I've known this for a long time and I've said it openly. No jury know anything,

0 (48m 8s):
Okay? All that's true except for this is a form of Navalny and really, really like the unnecessary I, I sympathize with him on every other thing that he's saying there. It's that last step that he just can't stop and it's because people told him not to say it, that he says it. This critique is meant to help Donald Trump's campaign. It is not meant to harm it. It is meant to tell people that Donald Trump ought to curb himself because if he does, he will win. And if he does not, he will lose. And now it is also true that much of the stuff that the media are portraying as foolishness and craziness and all this stuff will have no impact on the race. So there's certain stuff that may have an impact and then there's stuff that won't have an impact. One of the things that's not gonna have an impact, but that the media made a big deal out of is that over the weekends, Donald Trump went to something called Sneaker Con.

0 (48m 53s):
Now this kinda stuff, it's stupid. Like it's, it's laughable, but is it gonna hurt Trump in any way? No. So, so Trump goes to, he goes to Sneaker Con and he is selling Golden Trump sneakers. And you know, it's funny, at the very least, here we go. People are chanting F Joe Biden.

12 (49m 21s):
Thank you very much. That's beautiful. This is something I've been talking about for 12 years, 13 years, and I think it's gonna be a big success. Your influences have been very positive. They've been real influences and they love it. And they love what we've done. That's the real deal. That's the real deal.

13 (49m 44s):
Yes. We need's Christian's, a good, honest, they're after him. No reason. Vote,

5 (49m 53s):
Vote,

13 (49m 57s):
Vote man. Look at his family. You're all good kids. All good kids.

5 (50m 5s):
Yes.

0 (50m 8s):
Okay, so the media's gonna mock all of that, but you know, what is that gonna have any negative impact on Trump? He raised, by the way, those sneakers, which were selling for like 400 bucks a pair, they sold out immediately. That was like a thousand pairs of 400 grand on those sneakers. Now would you wear those like around the mall? I don't know. And will they make you run faster, jump higher. Hmm. But is that sort of stuff going to, going to harm Trump's campaign any real way? Not really. It's the other kind of stuff that, that is a problem for Donald Trump. Okay. Meanwhile, the left continues to demonstrate its absolute inability to deal with the immigration issue. New York City is a full scale disaster area. So New York City is now, I'm kidding you, not they're giving migrants a debit card.

0 (50m 51s):
According to Nicole Linas writing for the New York Post Mayor Eric Adams is giving out prepaid cash cards to migrants and Apparently. It will give migrants up to $10,000 each in taxpayer money with no Id check, no restrictions, no fraud control. So why exactly give up the credit cards or the debit cards? The mayor's office said that they were trying to solve a problem is that migrants staying in hotels don't eat all their food. And Doc go. The city's no bid emergency contractor to provide migrants. Three meals a day throws away up to 5,000 meals daily, wasting $7.2 million a year. And so the idea is you give them a debit card and they go and they buy their own meals and it will save you money.

0 (51m 32s):
Or alternatively, If, you wanna incentivize people to illegally immigrate, tell them they can come to New York City and get a free $10,000 gift for doing so. In the state of Florida, we give like a $10,000 bonus to cops who move down here 'cause we want more cops. What do you think happens when you give a $10,000 bonus to people who cross the border illegally and things are going well in New York? Tape emerged yesterday of migrants attacking cops in New York City migrant shelter. Here it was. Apparently the cops were attempting to detain a suspect at the Randall's Island migrant shelter. And, and migrants started throwing objects at the cops.

0 (52m 14s):
Also, people cursing at them in Spanish. The suspect seen in the video wearing a white shirt being detained by the police were reportedly not a shelter resident. Shelter security operatives eventually had to surround the cops to give them cover to exit the building with the suspect. So things are going really well on America's southern border. Good news, Joe Biden is, is in charge already. Folks. In just a second, we'll jump into the left wing, continued assault on the Supreme Court. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us

17 (52m 48s):
Across America. BP supports more than 275,000 jobs to keep energy flowing. Jobs like updating turbines at one of our Indiana wind farms and producing more oil and gas with fewer operational emissions in the Gulf of Mexico. It's and not, or see what doing both means for energy nationwide at bp.com/investing in America.