Learn About Gold (0s):
Do you feel prepared? With everything going on in the world, do you find yourself thinking about self-defense, home protection, and financial protection? More than ever, one form of financial protection is diversification. Gold has often been used to protect assets against inflation. Gold is a global reserve asset, and countries are buying massive amounts of gold. As a hedge against financial collapse, it's time to help protect yourself and invest in gold. Stop thinking things are going to get better. You need to look out for yourself and your family visit. Learn about gold.com. Learn about gold.com is a simple, free educational website. Learn about gold.com can help you learn about gold. Our website has extensive educational resources that can help guide you along the path of precious metals investing. It's time to inform yourself about why owning gold is more important today than ever. Learn about gold.com. That's learn about gold.com. Three words, learn about gold.com.

1 (1m 0s):
Well, folks, last night was the new Hampshire primary and as expected Donald, Trump blew away the field. This, of course, was not a giant shock. The polling just before this particular primary had Donald trump up 20 plus points in many of the polls. Donald Trump actually went and visited a bunch of these sites, big crowds there, and he was very trumpy. Here's what it sounded like.

2 (1m 20s):
You have a big crowd here. Are you pretty confident here?

3 (1m 22s):
I'm very confident. I mean, this is it. Look, this is, we just stopped here. We stopped at a polling site. We picked it at random. We may stop at one more and nobody knew we were coming. This is pretty amazing. Mr.

2 (1m 33s):
President said that she's staying in through Super

3 (1m 36s):
Tuesday. I don't care. Is

2 (1m 37s):
She a threat to

3 (1m 37s):
You? No. No. She, and I don't care if she stays in, let her do whatever she wants. It doesn't matter. I can just say that there's never been a movement like this Make America great again in the history of our country. I just stopped here and I figured I'd see three or four people and maybe walk inside and you see a crowd like this. And this is, this is organic. We love you.

1 (1m 58s):
So he wins. The primaries are over, they're over after Iowa. I'm not sure what else there is to say about that. It does raise the question of just why Nikki Haley failed to resonate as sort of the anti-Trump candidate. Now part of it is that there just isn't an anti-Trump wing of the Republican party sufficient to actually over overcome the, the pro-Trump wing of the Republican party. When Donald Trump became the nominee in 2016, everybody came home and then everybody came home again in 2020 and everybody's coming home again in 2024. That is not a giant shock. That is In fact the way politics works. And so people who are looking at his results in say, new Hampshire in 2016 and saying he was gonna replicate his 35% in New Hampshire in 2024 are ignoring the fact that in the intervening period, he became the president of the United States and then ran an entire another election cycle and now is running yet a third election cycle.

1 (2m 48s):
But the outsized animus for Nikki Haley that you see on some parts of the right, and I do think it's outsized. Part of that is because if you oppose Trump, there's a part of the base that just is angry at you for having opposed, and a lot of it has to do with that. I mean, Nikki Haley again was his UN ambassador. She was somebody who worked for him. She's somebody who's praised his presidency. And so the idea that she's some sort of wild anti-Trump force I think is wrong. But what Nikki Haley does have is an affect problem that is out of, I would say, pattern with the modern Republican Party. The Republican party at this point is In fact, A party that is angry and I think justifiably angry on a number of scores. One of the things the, the Republican Party is angry about the base, particularly, they're very angry about hearing about racial divisions.

1 (3m 34s):
They've been lectured since 2008, since Barack Obama ran for president in 2007. They've been lectured that America was coming close to racial unity only to have that ripped away from them. And, and to watch as everybody sort of retreated back into tribalistic corners. And this is how you end up with critical race theory and DEI and equity throughout the Biden administration. So when they hear from members of the Republican party about how America is a place that was replete with discrimination even 20 years ago or 30 years ago, they tend to think, I, I'm not sure that the person who's saying that is the person that I want fighting this fight today. Not that people are lying about their experiences of 20 or 30 years ago, but to point out that your experience of 20 or 30 years ago is does that make you the person who is best suited to fight against the DEI culture today?

1 (4m 25s):
The reason that's coming up is because there's a clip of Nikki Haley that went viral just before the primaries in which she was talking about her childhood. And again, what she says here, I don't think is actually wildly controversial, except that it is very much at odds with the attitude of many members of the Republican base, which is to say, are you going to stand up against the predations of the D-E-I-C-R-T culture? Are you gonna stand up against the idea that America's a place of racial division with sufficient alacrity? Or are you going to try to play a little bit of identity politics for gain? Here's the clip of Nikki Haley that went totally viral.

4 (4m 59s):
We were the only Indian family in our small southern town. I was teased every day for being brown. So anyone that wants to question it can go back and look at what I've said on how hard it was to grow up in the deep south as a brown girl. What I will tell you is saying that I had black friends is a source of pride saying that I had white friends as a source of pride. If you wanna know what it was like growing up, I was disqualified from a beauty pageant because I wasn't white or black because they didn't know where to put me. So look, I know the hardships, the pain that come with racism.

4 (5m 42s):
It's the reason that I fight bullies every day when it comes to racism, antisemitism, or hate. And I always will.

1 (5m 49s):
Okay, so the reason that clip went viral on the right is because, again, the question is, is she saying that sort of stuff to pander, to legacy media or is she doing what Tim Scotts sort of did during the campaign where he says, look how far we've come. Now I've suffered from racism. I know what that's like, but America is a place of opportunity. And to pretend that America today is what America was yesterday is foolish. Or is this a I'm a diverse candidate, vote for me kind of play. I, I think a lot of Republicans took away the latter message from clips like that one, and it obviously did not help Nikki Haley. Now again, I think that's combined with a lot of people who are very pro-Trump and very angry that anybody would dain to run against Trump, whatever the result, it didn't end up well for Nikki Haley in New Hampshire overall. Now, she says that she's not going to drop out of the race just yet.

1 (6m 31s):
She said yesterday that she was not going to talk political obituaries.

4 (6m 36s):
I didn't get here because of luck. I get got here because I outworked and outsmarted all the rest of those fellas. So I'm running against Donald Trump and I'm not gonna talk about an obituary just because y'all think we have to talk about it. I'm gonna talk about running the tape and saving this country. I think we have to do it. I'm a fighter. I work hard and I do it because I love this country. And we're gonna go and fight until the very last poll closes, and then we're headed to my sweet state of South Carolina and we're gonna make the case there as well.

1 (7m 7s):
Now it's a couple of weeks until South Carolina. Do I think that Nikki Haley is gonna stay in all the way until South Carolina? I'm not sure exactly why she would. Maybe she wants to rack up some delegates in case there's an act of God and something happens to Trump and they go to the convention and she says, I'm the person with the second most delegates and make her case there. Maybe she wants to trade her delegates for some sort of slot in the administration. That's, that's quite possible too. Whatever it is, the primaries are over, they've been over since Iowa. Everything else is merely a, a sort of waste of of time and effort. I think spending more time on it. Now, with all that said, if you're a Democrat, you sort of feel like the trap may have just snapped clothes on your opponents. For a long time, Democrats, particularly in the legacy media, have been saying that all of Donald trump's opponents.

1 (7m 47s):
They're terrible. They're awful, they're no good. They're very bad except for Nikki Haley who is kind of okay. And the reason you say she was kind of okay is because again, of that sort of softer affect that she has. But don't worry if Nikki Haley had actually become the Republican nominee. She'd been just as bad as Trump, worse than Trump, because she's more seductive in terms of her politics and in terms of her mean than than Trump is. And that, that that would've been the play. But now that Trump is the nominee, you're starting to see polls that are emerging in the swing states. A poll from Pennsylvania with Trump down eight to Joe Biden, the the attempt to move from Donald. Trump is the scariest person in the world. He can't nominate him. Plus all of Donald Trump's opponents are even worse than Donald Trump. Rip on DeSantis, rip on Haley, rip on everybody else in the media, buy the media.

1 (8m 30s):
And then Trump gets the nomination. All of a sudden it's like, oh, look at that. He's losing in the swing states. Watch for that move from the legacy media. And of course, it is way too early to tell who's gonna win this election and who's gonna lose this election. So, you know, just keep your eye on that polling data. Just a second. I wanna talk about a fascinating discussion slash Debate that I did with a liberal streamer who calls himself Destiny. Actual name Steven Bonnell. We'll get to that in just one second.

ExpressVPN (8m 53s):
First, you have to use A VPN whenever you connect to the internet. So why exactly would you not do that? I know that adding an extra step to anything you do, it sounds like a giant hassle. But if you knew how easy it is to protect your connection with ExpressVPN, well you'd be doing it already. ExpressVPN is the easiest way to browse the internet safely and securely. ExpressVPN gets rid of all the things you hate about VPNs. Other VPNs slow your connection to the point where it's not even worth it to connect. But express VPN doesn't lag or buffer. You can stream in HD with no issues. All you need to do is open that express VPN app, click one button, enjoy instant protection across all your devices. Once you connect to express VPN, you don't even realize you have it on, but your connection is In fact secure. Your data is In fact encrypted Express VPN has been called the best VPN by Business Insider and Tech Writer. Obviously I agree. I use ExpressVPN myself right now. You can get an extra three months of ExpressVPN for free. Just go to ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben. That's X-P-R-S-S vpn.com/ Ben to get three extra months of ExpressVPN for free. Can ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben? It is the world's best at vpn. I've used it for years. You should use it as well. Protect your data because it is your data today. express@vpn.com slash Ben.

1 (9m 57s):
Okay, so about a week ago, week and a half ago, I sat down with a liberal streamer named Steven Bonne. He calls himself Destiny online. He got a big following online and frankly, I really hadn't heard much about him or viewed his videos much until I agreed to debate him on Lex Friedman's show. And you can listen to the entire debate over at Lex's YouTube channel, and it's really, I think, worth the listen. It's a couple of hours long. The reason it's sort of fascinating is because we covered a lot of ground and one of the biggest pieces of ground we covered is the Debate between Biden and Trump. And so I'm wanna play a little bit of that for you right here, because I think that this is going to be the Debate, obviously going into the 2024 election, is this debate between Biden and Trump.

1 (10m 40s):
The, the Debate did not censor particularly much on Joe Biden's record because the truth is that Joe Biden's record is deeply flawed. And we're gonna get to more of that in just one second. Instead, it's centered on the central contention that is being made by people who are voting for Biden, which is that Donald Trump ought to be ruled out just right away, just right off the bat. Donald Trump is cannot be president of the United States because he's just too scary, he's too divisive, he's too, too tyrannical. So what Destiny said was that Donald Trump is the most divisive political figure in American history. And what I pointed out to Stephen is that Joe Biden is in many ways more divisive. Why? Because when Donald Trump came into office, Donald Trump was expected to be divisive.

1 (11m 21s):
There weren't any secrets about Donald Trump being a divisive character. He came into office. He did not have a positive approval rating for, but maybe two days of his entire presidency. Joe Biden was expected to be a person who united the country, and then he completely failed. Here. Here's what I had to say.

5 (11m 37s):
Can I ask you like for our head of state, our chief executive, shouldn't rhetoric be arguably one of the most important things that he does?

1 (11m 44s):
I mean, the answer would be yes. And now I've been given a choice between a person who I think in calibrated ways says things that are divisive. And a person who in Uncalibrated ways says things that are divisive. And so the evidence that Joe Biden is divisive is every poll taken since essentially August of, of 2021, he, he is by all available metrics, incredibly divisive. A huge percentage of Americans are deeply unhappy not only with his performance, but don't believe he's a uniter. And, and, and this is one of the things that I think that Democrats ought to keep in mind, is that Democrats are, are thinking just right off the bat that Donald Trump is so divisive because of his rhetoric and all the things he says. But are people disappointed with Trump or is Trump kind of what he always was?

1 (12m 28s):
Because one of the things I get is that people are deeply disappointed in Joe Biden. That's a very difficult feeling to shake. If you are disappointed in a political candidate, you tend to turn away from that political candidate. That was actually the story of the 2012 election. Between 2008 and 2012, Barack Obama actually lost votes. He's the first incumbent president to lose votes and somehow retain the presidency. Now, why did that happen? How could he retain the presidency? And the answer is, he got people who were largely unenthusiastic about voting to vote. And that was particularly true for black voters in swing states, a performance that has not yet been replicated by any Democrat, Hillary Clinton, nor Joe Biden. When it comes to presidents who are expected to unite and then divide, the American people don't like that.

1 (13m 11s):
They kinda would rather know what they're getting than be disappointed in a promise that is unfulfilled. There is no promise that Trump has made that is unfulfilled, good and bad. But Joe Biden came into office on the wings of Eagles. Joe Biden came into office pledging that he was going to unite the country. He's gonna bring honor and the adults back to the White House. And instead he has provided terrible leadership and divisive rhetoric and speeches in which he labels half the country terrible and awful, and threats to democracy. We also talked about the idea of tyranny. So Stephen focused a lot on January 6th. He focused a lot on the idea that Trump would, if he could be a tyrant. And the point that I made is that Donald Trump, you know, would he, would he exercise power if he could exercise power in ways that I would not like?

1 (13m 55s):
Sure. He has said that he would. I mean, he recently went on a Twitter spree or a truth social spree in which he claimed that the president has what he called absolute immunity like for any crime ever. So do I think that he would effectuate that if he could? Sure. Is he going to do any of that? No, he's not here. Here's how I explained it to Steven when we were talking about, you know, which character is more tyrannical. Joe Biden has used executive power in ways that far outstrip

5 (14m 21s):
Any president has been stretching and stretching and stretching. Executive power.

1 (14m 24s):
Joe, Joe Biden is going, like Joe Biden has gone well beyond anything Trump even remotely attempted to maintain via just pure executive power. I mean, Joe Biden literally used the Occupational safety and hazard administration to try to cram down vax mandates on 80 million Americans. That's insane. Sure. He literally said, I cannot relieve student loan debt and then tried to relieve hundreds of billions of dollars in state debt. Yeah, but what happened to that? It got struck down by the Supreme Court and then they still did it. They still did it. Biden brags about it. Okay. So again, I think that a lot of the points that are being used against Trump are not actually dispositive. And, and I think that really is the name of the game for Democrats. If they cannot kill Trump right off the bat, if they can't kill his candidacy right off the bat, they got a problem.

1 (15m 6s):
Because what exactly is the fuel they are going to add to the fire between now and November? What exactly is the information that's going to come out about Trump that's going to change anything? I don't really see it. And the biggest problem of all for Joe Biden is not just that he's bad on policy, which again we'll get to in a moment. The biggest problem for Joe Biden is that there is a conflict of visions between Joe Biden's view of the world and what the American people think. He's guided by an upper crust liberal elite, a coterie that does not think like the rest of the United States thinks. And that refuses to, to kind of engage in the conversations that the rest of Americans are engaged in. There's a, a poll that I wanna get to in just one second that explains where a lot of the Democratic party agendas coming from, and it is not coming from the same place that most Americans are coming from.

1 (15m 51s):
We'll get to that momentarily first.

My Patriot Supply (15m 52s):
In a world filled with uncertainty, you need to be prepared for any possibility. What you actually need is my Patriot Supply. My Patriot Supply is your trusted partner for emergency preparedness. They're the country's largest preparedness company. They're more than equipped to stock your shelves. So whether it's a natural disaster or a sudden emergency or unforeseen circumstances, my Patriot Supply High quality Food Storage solutions ensure you and your loved ones are always well fed no matter what comes your way. If you wanna be prepared for anything you need to visit, prepare with Ben dot com right now. You get 200 bucks off a much needed three month emergency supply from my Patriot Supply. Their three month emergency food supply provides delicious breakfast lunches and dinners that last up to 25 years in storage. You can even customize your supply with a mega protein kit with real meal or gluten-free options. These kits provide over 2000 calories every day. They're simple to prepare just to add some water and heat and then eat. If you order by 3:00 PM your food kit is going to ship fast on the same day with free shipping. Again, this is a great way to invest in your safety and wellbeing, secure that food storage. You put it in the closet, you forget about it, and then God forbid an emergency happens, you're already ready. Go to prepare with Ben dot com. Start your three month emergency supply. Again, go to prepare with Ben dot com right now. That's prepare with Ben dot com.

1 (16m 56s):
Okay. So the conflict of visions may be the story of not only this election, but the election of 2016 between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton. So there is a, a person named Yuval Noah Harari. Yuval Noah Harri is an author and a professor in the Department of History at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. But don't let that title fool you. He is sort of a, a pop sociologist to a certain extent, a pop anthropologist. And he happens to be a militant atheist. And here is his view on life. And the reason I'm bringing this up is 'cause I think this is actually the view of a huge number of liberal minded elites in the United States. And it is completely at odds with the way that most people, I think, think here is Yuval Nova, no Harari.

1 (17m 40s):
He is giving a Ted talk. Here's what it sounded like.

6 (17m 43s):
Many, maybe most legal systems are based on this idea, this belief in human rights. But human rights are just like heaven and like God. It's just a fictional story that we've invented and spread around states and nations are also like human rights and like God and like heaven. They too of just stories. Israel or the United States, they are just stories, very powerful stories. Stories we might want to believe very much, but still they are just stories. You can't really see the United States. You cannot touch it. You cannot smell it.

1 (18m 23s):
Okay? The realities, once you create this fact value disconnect, once you get rid of the divine or any rational basis at all, or faith basis for fundamental first principles, then you fall very quickly into moral relativism. And once you're in moral relativism, it's very hard to escape it. And that's why there's a, a really fascinating poll that came out recently from Rasmussen. And it looked at the people who are sort of, that we describe as the elites. Here's how the Rasmussen polling group describes it. They say the people who run America, or at least think they do, live in a bubble of their own construction. They've isolated themselves from everyday American and realities to such a degree. Their views about what is and what should be happening in this country differ widely from the average Americans.

1 (19m 7s):
An analysis of their thinking conducted for the committee to unleash prosperity finds that on a variety of economic, social, and political issues, there exists a wide gap between how the top 1% the elites think things should be and how the rest America looks to them. So how did they define the elites? These would be defined as people having at least one post-grad degree. Okay? So these are people then just graduate college. They have a jd, an MBA, an MD earning at least 150 grand annually living in a high population density area. So that'd be like a New York lawyer who graduated from NYU or something. And then it compares what these elites think to what the rest of America. And what they find is this vast disconnect, a serious and vast disconnect.

1 (19m 47s):
So for example, in a time when most Americans have suffered a loss of real take home pay, 74% of elites say they're financially better off today than in the past versus 20% of all Americans. And that disconnect makes sense. A lot of these people sat home during covid and they did just fine. And they don't really understand why other people don't feel that way. I, I get that, I have a lot of friends who, who made money over the last several years, but that's not the experience of most Americans. That is really not the experience. And if you don't understand that, then you have a disconnect. You don't have to experience what other people experience to understand that what they're saying is correct. And when most Americans say the economy is not good for me, they're right. The economy is not good for them.

1 (20m 29s):
Nearly six in 10 of these elites say there is too much individual freedom in America. Double the rate of all Americans. So how do they get to that? These are people who are experiencing the highest levels of freedom of any subgroup in the United States. They have more monetary freedom. Many of them. They, they have more educational freedom. They have more freedom to move about. They have more choices in life, presumably. But they say there's too much individual freedom in America. Why? Because like Yuval Na Harari, they don't believe that freedom is an inherent right? Because rights are social constructions. They're, they're stories that we make up to tell ourselves at night. And these are the sophisticates. And these sophisticates are interested in building a system of their own making. For you. More than two thirds of these people favor rationing a vital energy and food sources to combat the threat of climate change.

1 (21m 13s):
Now again, that's because they can avoid all of this. They don't believe that they should go back to living in a, a nature preserve or a log cabin. They may say they do because they don't actually have to live like that right now. And that seems very far away from them. So easy for them to say. But they say that sort of stuff again. Why? Because to them property rights are kind of irrelevant 'cause they already own the things. In fact, the people who need property rights, the most typically are not the people who already own, but the people who are going to need to own in order to get out of the situation in in which they currently live. I'm gonna get to more of this polling in just one second.

Tax Network USA (21m 44s):
First, are you struggling with back taxes or have unfiled returns this year? Well, the IRS is escalating collections. By adding 20,000 new agents in these challenging times, your best defense is to use tax network USA. With over 14 years of experience tax network, USA has saved their clients over a billion dollars in back taxes. They specialize in negotiating with the IRS. They aim to reduce your debt significantly. Tax Network USA doesn't just negotiate. They protect your assets from IRS seizures and manage your yearly returns for ongoing compliance. Importantly, they're licensed to help with all state tax issues regardless of where you live in the United, States, Seize control of your financial future. Right now, don't let tax issues overpower you. Contact Tax Network USA for immediate relief and expert guidance. Call 1 802 4 5 6,000 or visit tn USA dot com slash SHAPIRO in your tax Network USA, find your path to financial peace of mind. Again, that's tn USA dot com slash SHAPIRO. That's tn USA dot com slash Shapiro. Don't get caught behind the tax eight ball. It's very difficult to get out from behind that. Get help that you need right now. Tax Network USA dot com slash Shapiro or 1 802 4 5 6,000.

1 (22m 47s):
Okay, back to this fascinating poll of the elites from Rasmussen. Apparently somewhere between half and two thirds of these elites favor banning things like SUVs, gas stoves, air conditioning, and non-essential air travel to protect the environment. About six of these 10 elites have a favorable opinion of the so-called Talking Professions, be lawyers, lobbyists, politicians, and journalists. Now, again, I think Normies in America look at that and they're like lawyers. Those are people who make things more complicated and cost me money. Lobbyists, those are people who work for industry and then engage in regulatory capture politicians. Those are people who stand in the way of my prosperity. Journalists are people who lie to me. I think it's how many Americans feel about our institutions right now. But the elites, because these are the circles in which they walk, have a lot of faith in institutions that the rest of America has been disabused about.

1 (23m 33s):
Well, here's the the key stat here. President Biden has an 84% job approval rating from this group that is roughly twice as high as the general public. That is, that is a massive gap, a massive gap. Again, when it says, does the United States provide too much individual freedom, too much government control, or is the balance outright? 57% of Americans say about too much control. Ivy League graduates, 55% say too much freedom. A that gap defines the Biden administration. The Biden administration is defined by this gap. Now again, I think that normal people are not thinking like this. I don't think normal people think that things like country and borders are artificial abstractions created out of thin air.

1 (24m 19s):
They're stories that we just tell ourselves, arbitrary stories that we can change at any time. And In fact, I think that the stories that, that replace those stories, even if you buy Yuval Noah Hari's framework here, the stories that replace those stories are much worse than the stories that have historically been accepted by human beings. The, the replacement for stories about church, for example, has not been a better story that we tell ourselves. It's been a much worse story. This is why it, it was fascinating during that debate with Destiny, the, the liberal streamer, the the question of low birth rates came up and you all, no Harari might say, well that's because of a story that we tell ourselves about human freedom and contraceptive freedom.

1 (25m 2s):
Okay, fine. But the answer to that story is a better story. And that, that story could be answered not with puzzlement and bewilderment, but with a simple, with a simple three word answer. Here's what that sounded like.

5 (25m 16s):
The one kind of weird thing that we are coming up against that we have been coming up against now for, for some number of decades, and we'll continue to is as societies progress seems like people are having less children. And I actually don't know 100% what the answer is to that question. I do. I'm sure you do. Yeah. I mean, an implementable answer that works that we know we can get everybody on board with. And

1 (25m 38s):
The answer, my my answer was go to

5 (25m 40s):
Church religion. Yeah, yeah.

1 (25m 42s):
Yes, actually, yes. Now, there's two ways for people who are liberal to get out of that. One is to say, well, that's a story you tell yourself. It's a false story. And so we're just not gonna do it. The other way is to say, well, maybe if the thing has worked over time, it is worth actually examining whether it is a true story. Maybe there's some truth to that story. But that's the thing that the elites can't abide. Because if there's truth to many of the narratives that preexist them, then they got a problem. Because these are the intellectuals, these are the post grads, these are the people who are the successful elite in our society. They want to restructure society according to their own story. But what if the story that preexisted them was not in arbitrary story? Maybe that story was there for a reason actually, of all people, Dean Phillips, the, the Democratic Minnesota Congress person I think kind of stumbled upon this.

1 (26m 27s):
He was jousting with the media. He's running against Joe Biden in a quick exotic campaign in New Hampshire against the current president. But he went off on the media because they were asking a bunch of questions. And he said, listen, you're not even asking the questions Americans care about. And that makes perfect sense. 'cause journalists, many of them are part of this elite Cory who have a different value system from the rest of America.

7 (26m 48s):
I've said this 18,000 times, I'm only doing this to defeat Donald Trump. Nobody seems to want to do that in the Democratic Party right now, other than me, because Joe Biden can't is my proposition because the data says he can't. No one in the country right now cares. In fact, most of the people in the country are going to the Trump rally right now because he's listening to them. No one's asking about this stuff. I'm just frustrated. I hope you understand why I'm getting tired of it. You're doing your jobs, but you're not asking the questions that Americans give a about.

1 (27m 17s):
He happens to be correct. He happens to be correct. Democrats are not giving answers to the questions that Americans care about. And journalists aren't even asking the questions that Americans give a crap about In fact. Their definition of freedom is so wildly different from the definition that most Americans hold that it's gonna get them in an awful lot of trouble. So for example, Senator Tammy Duckworth was asked what 2024 was about, and she said, freedom. And so the question is, what? What do you mean by freedom? Listen or answer?

8 (27m 42s):
Well, I think that it's about freedom, right? It's about protecting democracy, but protecting freedoms. And one of our freedoms is the right to control our bodies and control our reproductive cycles. Also talking about the right to the freedom from student loans, the freedom to walk down the streets and, and not have to worry about being target of racial attacks. Those are all freedoms that we can certainly talk about. And I do think that really focusing on policy and and describing freedom in those terms would be helpful.

1 (28m 10s):
That's amazing. How does she describe freedom? She names three things. Freedom to do abortion, which I think there are a lot of Americans who are not on board with the idea that freedom is abortion. Most shockingly. She says freedom is freedom from student loans. That's an amazing statement. So freedom is other people pay your bills, right? That's true freedom. And that's the elite version of freedom, right? That's the society. They wanna structure freedom res from responsibility, say the elites. That's how most Americans are talking about. If that's the democratic proposition for 2024, I think that that is a vast gap from what most Americans feel. Remember a few months back, there was this song that went absolutely viral and that, and that, that song, it was Oliver Anthony and the, the song was called Richmond, north of Richmond, you'll recall.

1 (29m 1s):
And the lyrics of Richmond, north of Richmond absolutely puzzled many members of the left. They literally did not know what he was talking about because in the song he talked about people basically taxing too much and also spending too much money, right? He talks about the abuse of welfare, for example. And people who are in this elite coie, they're like, what is he whining about? He's, he's a blue collar guy. Shouldn't he be in favor of that? Shouldn't he want a restructured way of life? And what he's talking about is the things that most Americans actually care about. The things that are, the stories that have always worked, the stories about family and freedom and the ability to use your merit to rise to the top.

1 (29m 43s):
And one of the things that, that he sang about was he, he, he said, if you're five foot three and you're 300 pounds, taxes ought not to pay for your bags of fudge rounds. Young men are putting themselves six feet in the ground 'cause all this damn country does is keep kicking them down. And people are like, why is he, why is he doing the welfare queen routine? Well, it turns out that most Americans actually are not in favor of the basic proposition that freedom means freedom from student loans, for example. And this is Joe Biden's core problem. Joe Biden is not speaking a language the American people recognize. And that's gonna come back to Biden in the bud, along with his policy failures, which we'll get to momentarily.

Balance Of Nature (30m 15s):
First, let's talk about staying healthy on the road. So we're on the road, we're in Poland. We just went to Auschwitz with, with Elon Musk. We spent a day filming and producer Zach, he keeps healthy how well he uses his Balance, Of, Nature fruit and veggie capsules when we are on the road, which is a smart thing to do. Balance, Of, Nature fruits and veggies are a great way to make sure you are getting essential nutritional ingredients every single day. Balance Of Nature uses an advanced cold vacuum process that encapsulates fruits and veggies into whole food supplements without sacrificing their natural antioxidants. The capsules are completely void of the additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticides, or added sugar. The only thing in Balance Of, Nature fruit and veggie capsules are, you know, like fruits and veggies. Right now, not only will my listeners get 35% off your first order, you'll get a FREE Fiber and Spice supplement as well. Balance Of, Nature Fiber and Spice supplement is a revolutionary Fiber drink with a unique blend of 12 spices and Whole Foods experience. Balance Of Nature. For yourself today, go to Balance Of Nature dot com. Use promo code Shapiro, get 35% off your first order as a preferred customer. Plus get a free bottle of Fiber and Spice. That's Balance Of Nature dot com promo code Shapiro. Get 35% off your first preferred order, plus that free bottle of Fiber and Spice.

1 (31m 18s):
Okay, so speaking of Joe Biden's policy, you know the most undercovered story of this, of this cycle, this new cycle so far, is the fact that we have two dead Navy seals. The those, I mean like how is this not the biggest story in America? So these two Navy Seals actually died. They were lost at sea during an operation attempting to Seize Iranian made missile parts that were bound for who the rebels in Yemen. All of this, by the way, an outgrowth of the gigantically weak foreign policy of this administration. With regard to Iran, SenCom said in a statement, the military had declared the two deal of seals dead. It was now conducting recovery operations following a 10 day exhaustive surge.

1 (31m 58s):
The search covered 21,000 square miles. Apparently the seals were reported lost earlier this month when they took part in a nighttime operation to board a boat in the international waters of the Arabian Sea. According to the US military, that is an attempt to ensure freedom of shipping, which has been completely obstructed under Joe Biden through the Red Sea. Now, Joe Biden's attempts to fire missiles that hit camels in the ass has so far had very little effect on the actual prevention of who the terror attacks on ship, which continue unabated. Meanwhile, we have two Americans dead in an attempt to stop the Houthis. We have other Americans who have been severely wounded, including one with apparently brain injuries, thanks to Iranian attacks on American bases in Iraq.

1 (32m 40s):
And Joe Biden is just trying to walk through this thing here. Is Joe Biden literally just trying to stumble across grass and avoiding questions about these two dead Navy Seals.

9 (32m 50s):
President, president two Navy Seals are dead. What's your response Mr.

1 (32m 57s):
P? There he, he's walking as the, as Donald Trump likes to say, looking like he's trying to walk on toothpicks. And again, it's not just these two dead Navy seals. According to the Wall Street Journal, Iranian backed militias launched another missile in Rocket barrage at US forces in Iraq. On Saturday, several Americans may have been injured. Will Iran pay any price for this latest assault? CENTCOM said in a statement, most of the missiles were intercepted by the all Assad airbase Air defense systems. While others impacted the base. Damage assessments are ongoing and added. A number of US personnel are undergoing evaluation for traumatic brain injury. At least one Iraqi service member was wounded. This is one of the largest of the 140 or so attacks by Iranian backed militias since October 7th against the United States in Iraq and Syria. And all of that is designed to put pressure on the United States to put pressure on Israel to stop and leave Hamas in place in the Gaza Strip after the worst terror attack on Jews since World War ii.

1 (33m 46s):
Now why is all that happening? The reason Iran is doing this is because Iran believes that in an election year, Joe Biden is so all fired, frightened of getting into a war with Iran, that they can push the United States around to their heart's content. They can shut down shipping in the Red Sea. They can continue to have Hezbollah fire missiles into Northern Israel and kill Jews. They can continue to fire directly at American bases. They can have their proxy forces fired directly at American Air bases in Iraq. And Joe Biden will run away. In fact, that is not a bad analysis by the Iranians because that's how weak Joe Biden is. Peter Baker of the New York Times reports as much he says another day, another barrage of rockets and another spark that American officials fear could set off a wildfire of violence across the Middle East. The assault on American troops base at Olis Air Base in Western Rock Saturday night was by one measure of the most successful bleeds to be carried out by a militia sponsored by Iran.

1 (34m 33s):
Since the Hamas terrorist attack on Israel on October 7th, two out of the an estimated 17 rockets in short range ballistic missiles fired at the base, made it through air defense systems. American forces have at times mounted retaliations, but in limited fashion to avoid instigating a full fledged conflict. Biden administration officials have regularly debated the proper strategy. They don't wanna let such attacks go without a response, but on the other hand, they don't wanna go. So far, the conflict would escalate into a full fledged war, particularly by striking Irans directly. They privately say they may not have no choice if American troops are killed, that's a red line that has not been crossed. But if Iranian back militias ever have a day of better aim or better luck, it easily could be, what do you call when you have two dead Navy seals in an attempt to stop the Houthis from shipping a bunch of missiles into their territory?

1 (35m 17s):
Again, the fear of Iran is dictating this administration's foreign policy and it's dictating Iran's aggression. Now the reality is that Iran really, really does not want its direct war with the United States. What they do wanna do is humiliate the United States and pressure the United States into pressuring Israel to leaving their proxy force in Hamas in place. That is their goal. But there's an entire article in the New York Times by rule Mark Garret and Ray Tak talking about exactly what Iran wants and what they say correctly is. While Iran is clearly asserting its military strength amid the widening regional turmoil, that doesn't mean its leaders wanna be drawn into a wider war. They've said as much publicly, perhaps more important, they've meticulously avoided taking direct military action against either Israel or the United States.

1 (35m 57s):
The regime appears to be content for now to lean into its longtime strategy of proxy warfare. The groups they back are fighting Iran's foes. So far, neither Israel nor the United States has signaled any interest in retaliating directly. Why? Well, because they're afraid that if they go to war, if they get in like a direct firing war with the United States or Israel, they're afraid their, their regime is over. The elderly supreme leader, Ayat Al Khomeini is seeking to secure his legacy. That means not getting dragged into a wider war. They're busily rounding up protesters and executing them right now. So, you know, Iran doesn't want the war, certainly more than, than the West doesn't want the war. But Joe Biden is making clear, just like Barack Obama did in 2012 to the Russians, if you guys wanna get aggressive like now, it would probably be your best move because if you like, please, please, please don't make me get aggressive with you because I wanna get reelected.

1 (36m 44s):
And Joe Biden is basically saying that to the Iranians and the Iranians are like, well that gives us a window of opportunity. Now there could be a miscalculation here. Iran could go too far, and the United States might be forced even under Joe Biden to do something. But the best way to do this would be to be predictably unpredictable. The reason they never did this under Trump is that they didn't know what the hell Trump was gonna do. Trump might've fired a missile and taken out the AYAs. He might've done that. Nobody believes that Biden is going to do that. Instead, Joe Biden continues to signal to the Iranians and their proxies that he will In fact do their work, that he will In fact attempt to leverage down a bad deal on Israel after the Hamas attack. According to the Wall Street Journal, a proposal submitted to Israel via the United States suggests a post-war Gaza that'll create a pathway toward a Palestinian state in exchange for Saudi recognition of Israel.

1 (37m 32s):
Now the reason that's totally insane is because if Israel grants a pathway to a Palestinian state on the heels of the worst terror attack in Israeli history, you are simply saying to people that if they attack you and kill lots of your citizens, you will give them stuff. That is what you are doing. By the way, Hamas for its part doesn't even want a ceasefire. According to the Associated Press, Kamas was offered a two month full ceasefire in exchange for the release of Israeli hostages and some Palestinian security prisoners being released as well and allowing Kamas leaders to relocate to other countries to get out. Kamas rejected that. So for all the, we need a ceasefire now crowd, Hamas rejected a ceasefire. Again, Biden's weakness on foreign policy is radically increasing the risk of actual serious war in the Middle East, moving beyond what's already going on over there.

1 (38m 21s):
And it's not just obviously the Middle East. And it's also continued chaos on our southern border. We'll get to that momentarily.

Daily Wire Plus (38m 26s):
First Lady Ballers is the hilarious story of how a group of male losers who can't win against men decide to identify as women and join a women's basketball league. Yes, it's absurd. It's ridiculous and laughable. And also it's kind of happening like right now, here's a quick look at what is being called the most Triggering movie of the decade. Leftists are losing it over Lady Ballers. Nothing's changed. This movie is a straight up and intentional transphobic hate crime. What I see you, the Lady Ballers movie, needs to be banned. I'll cancel you. I can get the blinds please. Code 11, the most toxic BSS you've ever seen. You're a monster. Yeah. Next level hate speech propaganda. That's it. That's the pitch. Watch the most. Triggering Comedy of the Decade, lady Ballers streaming exclusively on Daily Wire Plus Don't wait. Watch Lady Ballers. The movie Hollywood didn't make. So we did exclusively at Daily Wire Plus right Now,

9 (39m 23s):
meanwhile, again, Democrats are not connecting with the American people and so they're trying to walk their way past the issues. The latest example comes courtesy of the New York Times. So this is an insane thing. The New York Times printed a piece in which they claimed that there's bipartisan polarization around immigration. So the New York Times runs this headline, things Fall Apart How the Middle Ground on Immigration collapsed. And what they show is Pew Research censor polling with regard to feelings about illegal immigration and open borders. And for those who can't actually see the graphic that we're showing right now, this is why you should subscribe so you can actually see it because it's hysterically funny. Basically what it shows is that the American right has had perfectly consistent feelings on immigration since 1994, like with very little play in the joints.

1 (40m 5s):
Now, when when asked whether they support broader and looser immigration, only about 30% of Republicans said yes back in 1994. And that number is like 38% today. And it's always been between those two numbers. It's like just a straight line. Between 1994 and 2019 for Democrats, the number went from 32% pro more open borders to 83% today. But what the New York Times did is they drew fake trend lines suggesting that there was a radical decrease for Republican support, for borders, for for open borders and radical increase for Democrats. That's not true. Republicans have been perfectly consistent for 30 years on this question.

1 (40m 48s):
Democrats have been utterly inconsistent. They've moved from 32% support for open borders to 83% support for more open borders. So what is the New York Times trying to do? They're trying to pretend that there's been bipartisan polarization when In fact there has not. When In fact, they, the reality is that Democrats are the ones who have gotten more radical. You can try whistling your PA way past this graveyard, but man, it is a stupid political move. In fact, fascinating piece over at Barry Weiss's free press today by a reporter Al Olivia Reinold talking about black Democrats suing Chicago over migrants. According to the free press, black residents said that Chicago, which calls itself a welcoming city, has been very welcoming, just not to them.

1 (41m 30s):
Since October, 2022, Chicago has greeted nearly 35,000 new arrivals with resources like laundry services, mental health screenings, and $15,000 in rental support per person all funds. That could have gone a long way in Edmonton Park, in Chicago's Austin district, where nearly 28% of residents live below the poverty line. So last October, a day before the Fieldhouse was set to become a migrant shelter, a black Democrat rushed to the local courthouse along with three of her neighbors, plus the head of local NAACP chapter for moral support, and then drafted a lawsuit in a notebook, ripped out the pages and handed them to a clerk. So now black Democrats are suing over this. And when we say there's a disconnect between the elites that run the Democratic party and the rest of the the country, we mean like the rest of the country, that disconnect extends throughout American policy.

1 (42m 14s):
And things are only gonna get worse, by the way, because again, weakness on foreign policy level is likely to make things really bad economically speaking. Like right now, for example, China could effectively quarantine or blockade Taiwan. There's a poll from Axios, an expert opinion poll on whether Beijing could effectively quarantine blockade or invade Taiwan. According to these quote unquote experts, a law enforcement led quarantine of Taiwan. Almost almost 90% of American experts strongly agree or somewhat agree that there could be a law enforcement led quarantine of Taiwan.

1 (42m 57s):
How about a, how about a Chinese army led blockade of Taiwan? Well over 80% of US experts believe there could be an effective Chinese led blockade of Taiwan. How about an amphibious invasion of Taiwan? Well, that, that's less likely because that would involve mass death, but they don't need to do that. A blockade would do it. A blockade of Taiwan in which the Taiwan straits are effectively closed to all trade in which microchips just stop being shipped all over the world because China looks at what's going on in the Red Sea and they say, hell, if a bunch of ragtag pirates can do that in the Red Sea, why can't we, with a very, very large gray graywater Navy and a huge army, why can't we do the same thing blockade Taiwan until they cry uncle, and give us some more sophisticated military microchips.

1 (43m 38s):
Why can't we actually do this? Now again, that blockade would be involve both commercial and military activity. That would be a disaster area for the world economy. And it is becoming more and more likely because again, imagine this, the Chinese government right now, maybe they're holding out for a Biden victory because they think, okay, if they get a full second term of Joe Biden, they can push him around as much as they want. But what if Donald Trump is leading in a couple of months? Did they just say, you know what, forget it. Let's go for broke at this point. Interesting article over at the Wall Street Journal from a couple of years ago talking about what exactly a Chinese blockade of Taiwan would mean for global business. And the answer is a gigantic disaster. Taiwan accounts for roughly 70% of the world's microchip supply.

1 (44m 20s):
It sits next to Pacific Shipping lanes that channel trillions of dollars worth of trade flowing in and out of East Asia. China. A Chinese blockade of Taiwan would result in chip shortages for cars and electronics who drive up inflationary pressures as well. Pretty much every major industry would be radically changed by such a blockade. And that's becoming more likely every day because Joe Biden is a weakling because he's a weakling and he's busy with the priorities of these elites whose value system is unlike yours and who are much more concerned about say, global warming than they are about say, global trade. Okay, meanwhile, I know what you're waiting for and that is my analysis of the Oscar nominations.

1 (45m 0s):
I know you weren't waiting for that because after all, who washes the Oscars anymore. But still, I feel like it's worthwhile to go through some of these Oscar nominations because it's fun to see where, you know, people who disagree with you culturally are, are, are sitting today. So in easily the funniest story of the day, Barbie, which as you know, I loved, I thought it was an amazing film by which I think it was absolute overrated trash. I think it was unwatchable. I think that people who say they like it are lying. I think Michael Moles, I, I think that this movie makes no sense. It has plot holes, it's badly written, all of those things also, this is hilarious. So it was nominated for best picture, which is like, okay, I know what you guys are doing.

1 (45m 42s):
Yes, it, we made a ton of money and all the critics pretended they loved it because they had to, because they had a gun to their head. but it was nominated for best picture. Okay, fine, that's stupid. But the funniest thing by far, the funniest thing is that the only the is that the, the acting nominees for Barbie are Ryan Gosling, who plays Ken America Ferrera is nominated in the best supporting actress category for her garbage speech about how women have it so tough and oh my God, it's so hard to be a woman. So she was nominated, but you know, who wasn't nominated. So Ken was nominated, you know, who was not nominated Barbie, Margot Robbie, not nominated, you know who else's not nominated, the greatest director of all time, Greta Gerwig, who's the greatest.

1 (46m 27s):
We all love all of her work because she's the greatest director, whoever directed. And because everything she says is wise and brilliant, and she's so wise. So she was not nominated either. So Ken was the only major part nominated from the Barbie Film Owe the Patriarchy, the Power of the Patriarchy, even Overcoming Barbie itself. Hmm. And, and the patriarchy will Rule Supreme because I'm gonna predict right here, right now that Oppenheimer wins best picture. So in the Barb Heimer fight, Oppenheimer, which is like an all-time, great movie, is going to defeat Barbie, which is, which is trash, and it should. So the best picture nominees are American fiction, which is apparently a kind of like weird, weirdly anti woke piece is what I've heard, but I have not seen it yet.

1 (47m 7s):
Anatomy of a Fall, which is about a relationship because there's always a relationship movie at the Oscars, the Holdovers, which is I guess sideways in high school Killers of the Flower Moon, which is really over long, but it's directed by Martin Scorsese. And so we have to pretend that we all love Killers of the Flower Moon. And again, I'm not like super anti Scorsese, I like some of his films, but Killers of the Flower Moon is a drag maestro, which is about Leonard Bernstein being gay Oppenheimer, a movie called Past Lives, a movie called Poor Things and a movie called The Zone of Interest. Now I'll admit that I'm interested to see the Zone of Interest. Mainly it has amazing reviews, and also it covers ground that I literally just walked. I mean, it is, it is about Auschwitz, so I'm kind of fascinated to see that movie.

1 (47m 50s):
But those are your best picture nominees in the best actor category. This is where somebody actually got robbed, and it is not Margot Robbie, and it is not Greta Gerwig. It's Glenn Howerton from Blackberry. So if you haven't seen Blackberry yet, it's actually a lot of fun. It's a terrific little film, and Glenn Howerton is excellent in it. He's like, best Performance of the Year. Excellent. Who got nominated Killian Murphy from Oppenheimer, and he's admittedly great. Jeffrey Wright in American Fiction. I haven't seen American Fiction yet, I wanna see it. But he is, he's a really good actor, Paul Giamatti, who's not gonna win for the holdovers. And you know, I, I just gotta, I gotta put it out there. Not a huge Paul Giamatti fan. I feel like he's the same in every single part. Coleman Domingo in a movie called Rustin, which I have not seen, and Bradley Cooper playing Leonard Bernstein in Maestro and overplaying the part, chewing some scenery.

1 (48m 35s):
For Best Actress, you have a net bending in a movie called Nead, which nobody has ever seen, and no one knows what it's about or what it is, or the net bending was still alive. Lily Gladstone in Killers of the Flower Moon. She's fine. Sandra Hoer in Anatomy of a Fall. Carrie Mulligan and Maestro and Emma Stone in Poor Things. I'm gonna bet that it's Emma Stone in Poor Things. 'cause poor things, apparently like a feminist track about how repressed Victorian women, then there's best supporting actor. Robert DeNiro got a nod for Killers of the Flower Moon, which is a late career nod to Robert De Niro playing a part that he's 40 years old to play. Robert Downey Jr. And Oppenheimer, he is excellent in Oppenheimer. Ryan Gosling. I do think, by the way, Ryan Gosling is gonna win here.

1 (49m 17s):
I think Ryan Gosling, I think he's gonna be the Honorary Barbie Award because everybody loved him in Barbie. Even I thought that he was the most amusing thing in Barbie. And again, I think that, that that movie is Living Death. And I thought that Ryan Gosling was still funny in that film. And Mark Ruffalo in Poor Things, who I hope loses because he is a, he is not a a promatic person. He's too busy standing for Kamas best supporting actress, Emily Blunt Oppenheimer, Danielle Brooks, the Color Purple America Ferrera in Barbie for that garbage speech. Jodie Foster in nid. Again, don't know what it is. And Divine Joy Randolph in the holdovers Best Director Greta Wig got shut out. I think this is Nolan's year. I think Nolan is gonna take home Best picture and Best Director this year.

1 (49m 59s):
Those are, those are the big awards. So what is the takeaway? The takeaway is that it wasn't like an amazing year for film is the Takeaway, which seems to be our, our usual takeaway. Like, I don't see any films that I saw this year and I thought, man, that thing should have been nominated for Best Picture. That wasn't right. Oppenheimer, I think it has the most nomination, it's 13 nominations. It should have the most nominations. It's truly great film. Barbie, again, is gonna be the story because it's the only movie that, aside from Oppenheimer anyone saw this year. Yeah, bottom line, low ratings. But I'm rooting very, very hard for Brian Gosling to win for Barbie because it's the funniest possible outcome. The funniest possible outcome for the movie of Barbie is for Ken to win the only award.

1 (50m 39s):
I just, I'm, I'm there for it. I love that the Academy accidentally this and, and more. I want, I want Ken to win and I want, I'm just Ken from the Barbie movie to win. Those are my demands. And, and I will, I will hold someone hostage to make those demands happen. I want us to lose costume design. I want it to, I want us to lose every other category, but only the men win be. And not even 'cause I care, but because it's hilarious. It'd be super hilarious if the patriarchy ends up winning in a movie made about how terrible the patriarchy supposedly is. So there's that Allie coming up, we'll jump into Yvo at mailbag.

Daily Wire (51m 17s):
If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach SHAPIRO. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

Learn About Gold (51m 25s):
8 million Border Crossings War in the Middle East, Ukraine, China, Russia, Iran, political infighting, high inflation. We are facing unprecedented times and the status quo just doesn't work anymore. It's time to get your house in order. Planning for the future needs to be done now. If you've been thinking about diversifying your portfolio and adding some financial protection, you should consider gold. Gold has often been used to protect assets against inflation. Countries are buying massive amounts of gold as a hedge against market collapse. Learn about gold.com is a simple platform to help you better understand the need for gold in your 401k or keeping gold on hand during these unprecedented times. Visit learn about gold.com and take our gold quiz to see if you qualify for up to $2,500 in free gold. Our website has extensive educational resources that can help guide you along the path of precious metals investing that's learn about gold.com. Learn about gold.com. Learn about gold.com.