BP (2s):
BP added More than $70 billion to the US economy last year by making investments from coast to coast investments like building charging hubs for fleets of electric buses in California and starting up new infrastructure in the Gulf of Mexico. Its and not, or see what doing both means for energy nationwide at bp.com/investing in America.

ExpressVPN (31s):
Today's show's sponsored by ExpressVPN Thousands of listeners have already secured their network data. Join them at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (37s):
On Monday Politico ran a long interview with Surgeon General Vivek Murthy Murthy is apparently quote, worried about our sad social lives. According to Politico. Americans are burned out, disconnected, isolated and starved for time. Maybe it's post pandemic blues, maybe it's our smartphone addiction, whatever the cause. It's serious enough that Murthy has issued a formal advisory to the nation calling for action to address this epidemic. So what are Murthy's solutions? Well, he's hosting events around the country trying to put people in proximity to one another and speaking about the power of friendship at these events. According to Politico, quote, people dressed as dancing unicorns handed out prescriptions for five minutes of social connection, quantity, endless refills daily.

1 (1m 19s):
That's a thing that you are paying for. Murthy then encouraged people to spend 45 seconds writing a text to a loved one. Murthy asks people to engage in what he calls the connection exercise. He says that such exercises can be supplemented by investments in social infrastructure, which is where policymakers come in, Or. alternatively, it's precisely where policymakers and government should butt out. See, there is a reason for a loneliness epidemic, and that's a real thing. The loneliness epidemic. People are lonely, they're disconnected, they're atomized, and sure all of that has to do with smartphones and the internet and the increasing atomization of our lives as we hunker down with our screens and wreck our necks. But screens are just a tool to be used for good or ill.

1 (1m 59s):
The real problem is that our social institutions have been summarily destroyed over the course of decades, largely by government. Those social institutions used to begin with and center around church. Historically, churches performed three interwoven functions. First, they provided common orientation around a higher goal, complete with rules and regulations that required skin in the game in order to be accepted into the group. So everybody goes to my synagogue, believes in God, and also believes in a series of commandments that we have been given. The skin in the game ranges from, for example, wearing a yamaka, showing that you are committed to the group and to the idea to keeping kosher. And obviously every church has something similar, a higher orientation and a set of rules that require skin in the game.

1 (2m 40s):
Second, churches provided economic benefits and social reinforcement ranging from charity to the helping hands of neighbors in our community. That means when someone falls on hard times that we all try to find that person a job, that we will bridge the financial gap for people, that we'll make sure that somebody is able to drive our neighbor's kids home if their parents are stuck at work. Finally, churches emerging from the first two functions create a feeling of community. That feeling of community as sociologist Emil Durkheim wrote in the late 19th century could only be attained with reference to the sacred, a series of beliefs so worthwhile they were not to be questioned. That's what the sacred is, something that is higher, something that is not really open to dissent or question. As Robert and ebit, the sociologist writes quote, it is community that gives to the sacred its most vital expressions everywhere, birth, marriage, death, and other moments in the human drama.

1 (3m 28s):
Those are things that are higher. The sacred undergirds the community and the community provided the support structure necessary for the flourishing of the family. And then government tried to replace the church and destroyed community in the process. The first step was the substitution of government benefits for the earned membership of a church. See, in order for you to earn benefits of being a member of my synagogue, for example, you have to be a member of the synagogue, not a paid member, but you have to at least be in the community. You have to perform the functions. But once government stepped in, people no longer had to have skin in the game of a community in order to be given charity. Now they had entitlements by dents of breathing. You're here, therefore somebody owes you money. According to one study, new deal policies from the 1930s crowded out 30% of all charitable spending by churches because instead of people going to church and getting charity from their neighbor, which might come with the awkward requirement that you actually be part of the community and good to your neighbor.

1 (4m 22s):
Instead, you just go to the relief office. Government benefits are now exponentially greater than they were in the 1930s. Family structure itself was dramatically undermined by government spending. You were no longer responsible for your kids. In fact, if you were a dad, you could just ditch your kids and the single mom would get bigger benefits from the government. You are no longer responsible for paying for your elderly parents. Government would do that through social security and they would borrow the money to make up the gap. Your call on your neighbor no longer required you to sacrifice for the community. Instead of you having to go to your neighbor and say, listen, we're members of the same community. I take care of your kids, you take care of my kids, we're all in this together. Instead, you just go to the government, the government points its gun at your neighbor and steals his wallet, able to reap the rewards without the cost.

1 (5m 5s):
Many people stopped going to church. After all, if you can get the money without having to engage in any of the actual cost structure, why do it? And over the course of decades, churches began to adjust to the pews that were emptying out not by reinforcing the common orientation round a higher goal, sanctity, right? The thing that really brings people to church, but instead by trying to get rid of judgment so as to include more people. Because if the pews are emptying out that really only two ways to refill the pews, one is a rededication to core principle and the other is demolishing core principle and basically turning a church into a pizza party. Churches began to try to mirror government, no skin in the game, plenty of benefits as Gertrude Himmelfarb wrote two decades ago, quote, this process of religious accommodation has since gone on a pace so that today many mainline churches offer little or no resistance to the prevailing culture.

1 (5m 51s):
On the contrary, some are very much part of it priding themselves on being cosmopolitan and sophisticated. Uncd dogmatic and UNC censorious. This is how you end up with pride flags hanging off 200 year old churches and thus the sacred has been wiped away, leaving us all alone with our subjective sense of self catered to by a broad welfare state. So are we happier? Will that problem be cured by government? Of course not. It can only be cured by return to community and historically that community means religious community and that's why it's so sad to see religious leaders playing around the edges of conciliation with value systems that undermine the sacred at every single turn. We get to that in just one moment.

Pure Talk (6m 31s):
First, are you traveling for the holidays? If so, Pure Talk has you covered because they just added International Roaming to over 30 countries. That's right. Whether you're making calls on a beach in The Bahamas, on the steps of Buckingham Palace or at your villa in Santorini, you can dial away cool benefits over at Pure Talk. Here's the best part. There is no rate increase. Pure Talk still saves the average family almost a thousand dollars a year with plans starting at just 20 bucks a month. Pure Talk is the gift that keeps on giving. They put you on America's Most Dependable 5G network. The coverage is second to none. So stop dragging your feet. Switch on over to Pure Talk, a veteran-owned wireless company with simply the best just customer service team. Now with International Roaming to over 30 countries, go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro and make the switch. You'll save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage. I've been using Pure Talk for years. I do all of my calls on Pure Talk. They have a great tower network, same as one of the big guys. It's excellent. And again, you're getting a great deal right now. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash SHAPIRO and start saving on your wireless today. You'll save an additional 50% off your first month when you go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Pure Talk is simply smarter wireless. Go check them out right now.

0 (7m 33s):
Okay, speaking of religion opening its doors to value systems that really undermine the religion. On Monday, according to the vast majority of the legacy media, Pope Francis apparently decided that it was fine for priests to bless same-sex couples that at least was the headline from the legacy media. According to the New York Times, this move was quote, his most definitive step yet to make the Roman Catholic Church more welcoming to L-G-B-T-Q Catholics and more reflective of his vision of a more pastoral and less rigid church.

1 (7m 59s):
If all of that were true, of course that would mark a massive shift for the Catholic church which has held fast to the traditional teaching that marriage is between one man and one woman and that sexual union within marriage is the only morally permissible form of sexual union. By the way, that is an opinion agreed to by virtually every mainline religion. For the past several thousand years, the church has held fast for thousands of years not only to the sanctity of marriage, but to the natural law philosophy inherent in that sanctity. A philosophy that says that the world of God's creation carries within it certain obvious rights and wrongs. Teleological ends in this viewpoint. Things in nature were designed to perform certain functions. The sexual function was designed to create children. Man and women were designed to become one flesh according to this philosophy and that creation is designed to end in the creation of new human life.

1 (8m 45s):
As philosopher Robert George, who's a Catholic says quote, what is unique about marriage is that it is truly a comprehensive sharing of life. A sharing founded on the bodily union made uniquely possible by the sexual complementarity of man and woman, a complementarity that makes it possible for two human beings to become in the language of the Bible one flesh and for this one flesh union to be, to be the foundation of a relationship in which it is intelligible for two persons to bind themselves to each other in pledges of permanence, monogamy, and fidelity. So it would certainly be a massive surrender for the Catholic church to reject that teaching on behalf of a broader teaching. That morality now encompasses sexual relationships of all sorts, particularly sexual relationships without any potential whatsoever for the creation of human life as per the LGBTQ plus minus divided by sign agenda.

1 (9m 30s):
So is the media really accurately reporting what the Pope said? What did he actually say? Well, his defenders say that he really changed nothing according to the Catholic publication. The Pillar fiduciary Suan, which is the name of this publication, says clearly the Vatican does not intend to permit same-sex marriage or anything that resembles it and says that the church does not actually have the power or authority to do that. While the text does create a framework for blessing gay couples, it says that those blessings should not be confused with marriage or even with approval of same-sex unions or homosexual activity. Fiduciary Suan says that blessings are, quote, a pastoral resource to be valued rather than a risk or a problem, and that they may be bestowed upon those persons who quote, although in a union that cannot be compared in any way to a marriage desire to entrust themselves to the Lord and his mercy, to invoke his help and to be guard guided to a greater understanding of his plan of love and truth, such blessings ought not to be given in any circumstance resembling a sanctification of same-Sex unions says the Vatican and there is no intention to legitimize anything.

1 (10m 26s):
Furthermore says the document, the blessing ought to ascend on those who quote, do not claim a legitimation of their own status, but who beg that all that is true good and humanly valid in their lives and their relationships be enriched, healed and elevated by the presence of the Holy Spirit. So is there any reason for the controversy if nothing changed? Well, I mean there is, the argument itself suggests that blessings should not be quote, subjected to too many moral prerequisites and that priests ought not to lose pastoral charity which should permeate all our decisions and attitudes and to avoid being judges who only deny, reject and exclude. Furthermore, the document does not make clear whether the church will in fact crack down on liturgical blessings. It does not approve in the document. The Pope, in other words, is being vague and others are supposed to clean up after him, which which tends to be the way.

1 (11m 10s):
Unfortunately, Pope Francis works a lot. My friend Larry O'Connor Catholic has a good rundown of his interpretation of the latest missive. Here's what he writes. Quote, I'm not in full communion with the church as such, I'm required to abstain from partaking in the Eucharist. At mass, I walk up to the altar with my arms crossed on my chest, and the presiding plea priest offers me a blessing. He's not blessing the situation I am in that keeps me from being in communion with the church. He's offering me a priestly blessing so I can continue my faith journey and move forward closer to Christ despite my situation. This is exactly what the Vatican has confirmed the pastors may do for individuals who have same sex attraction and are also not in full communion with the church because of their situation. But is that all the Pope is doing? Because Larry is not approaching the altar as a member of a same sex couple.

1 (11m 51s):
He is not walking up there. Larry's divorce, he's not walking up with with his second wife together with her to receive a blessing as a couple. According to Larry, he's approaching individually. Of course, religions should offer blessings to sinners while hating their sin. Of course, everyone is a sinner. This is true in Judaism just as it is true in Catholicism or Protestantism. Everyone is a sinner. And if sin or what barred you from receiving a blessing, no one could receive a blessing. But when a same-sex couple approaches a priest for a blessing as a same-sex couple, the distinction starts to fall away. 'cause again, they're not approaching individually and asking for a blessing individually while being a sinner. The idea is that the church knows they're a same-sex couple and they're approaching for a blessing as a same-sex couple, and then they're receiving a blessing as a same-sex couple.

1 (12m 35s):
The Pope here is not allowing blessing for individuals who participate in same-sex unions. That was already the case. Every traditional religion allows sinners to receive blessings individually. So far as I'm aware. Instead, the Vatican is apparently now green lighting blessing same-sex couples as couples then pretending it doesn't mean anything so long as the blessing isn't an outright sanctification of the same-sex relationship. Now that's clearly how the left is reading it. The Reverend James Martin, a radical left-wing Catholic says quote, this new declaration opens the doors to non liturgical blessings for same-sex couples, something that had previously been off limits for bishop's, priests, and deacons. Along with many priests. I'll now be delighted to bless my friends in same-sex unions. So why aren't we to care?

1 (13m 16s):
Now? I'm not a Catholic, but here is the thing we ought to care because when historical pillars of Western tradition, including natural law, begin to carve away at those pillars in the name of tolerance and diversity, when they throw open to doors of the church by getting rid of core principles or by crumbling those core principles, the entire edifice starts to wear away. And this is a problem for religious believers of all traditional stripes. It is not restricted to the Catholic church. This should not be read. It's just a critique of the Pope. It's not unique to Catholicism, it's happening in Judaism, it's happening in Protestantism. On the same day, the Pope issued his statement celebrated by the New York Times. The New York Times issued another piece about the collapse of the United Methodist Church, riven by controversy over lgbtq plus minus divided by sign issues as the time describes.

1 (13m 58s):
Quote at issue for Methodist is the question of ordaining and marrying LGBTQ people. A topic that is splintered many other Protestant denominations in which Methodists have been debating for years, there were 8 million Methodists in the United States in 2020, according to the US religion census between large scale departures and the broader trend of decline according to one source, that number could drop by half in a decade. The Exodus Mars, a calamitous decline for the broader tradition of mainline Protestantism, which ones dominated the American religious, social, and cultural landscape. And herein lies the biggest problem of all. There is no substitute for traditional religion in the American landscape or indeed in the Western landscape more broadly.

1 (14m 38s):
And traditional religion requires skin in the game. It requires rules, it requires behavioral restrictions. It requires people to actually believe in a moral system above their own subjective morality. The minute religion becomes merely a non-judgmental blessing dumped on top of subjective self-glorification, religion is no longer valuable. And when religion loses its value, church crumbles. And when church crumbles, social society crumbles. And then we are relegated to the Surgeon general of the United States. The vague Murthy lecturing us as dancing unicorns hand out prescriptions for social connection. Herein lies the problem when church dies, so does the United States. It's why everyone feels so chaotic these days.

1 (15m 19s):
You wanna know, by the way, why there's a rising conspiracy theories on every side of the aisle these days. It's because when you don't trust in God, you start believing there has to be some other conspiracy responsible for why the world works the way that the world works. When you believe in God, it makes it very easy to say, okay, don, don't understand what the hell's going on here, but there is someone who does. But when you don't believe in God or when you fear that God may not be in charge, then you start believing that a small cadre of human beings are capable of manipulating events to the nth degree and then you find those human beings, then you blame those human beings. And this allows you to believe in any form of conspiracy theory. And that's a real problem because once you start believing in those sorts of theories, you can't have a functional democracy or a functional republic along those lines.

1 (16m 0s):
Doesn't mean there aren't conspiracies that are true, but when people start believing evidence free conspiracies, when everything that happens is a sign of a broader conspiracy of which you have no evidence, that's really a problem because it means you can't trust any outcome. Every outcome is now inherently untrustworthy and that is a real danger for the country. Okay, meanwhile, Joe Biden has hit record approval ratings in the 2024 election, according to a brand new poll from Monmouth University. He's now down to 34%, 61% of those poll disapprove of the job that Biden is doing as President 20 with the 2024 presidential election. Now less than a year away, according to Mediaite, and these are really horrifyingly bad numbers for Joe Biden, he has a 24% approval rating among independents.

1 (16m 45s):
This puts him behind the eight ball in pretty much every swing state Donald Trump is currently leading. And it's not just me saying it, democratic pollster, Stanley Greenberg, he's saying they're losing ground every single month. This campaign is just getting weaker.

2 (16m 58s):
Inflation is like 30 points higher than the next problem. And you can't, you know, with the president currently doing is his tweets always start with we're making progress. And then he mentions prices. If you look at it, ads aims at black voters. It's mainly trying to convince them they're doing a good job, but that's not worth there. They're not. They are losing drum every month and anger about it. But then you have to, you have to stop. You have to say, what's the main problem? How do you, you know, how do you deal with the first problem, which is inflation and the cost of living? Yeah,

1 (17m 35s):
Okay. Well he's right about all that and you can see it reflected in the polls. Meanwhile, the news media are trying to make the case to Joe Biden that the reason that he's losing popularity is because he's not left wing enough, which is an amazing case to make on behalf of a president who spent More than any president in American history here, isn, BC interviewing young voters who are turning away from Biden. And naturally, if you interview all the crazy young people, I mean, and look at these people. I mean, my goodness, if this is the next generation, we are so screwed. And here they are trying to explain, these are from Dane County, Wisconsin, why they're unenthused about voting for Joe Biden.

3 (18m 7s):
Gimme the motion that you have looking at your choice this election, not, not enthused, I'd say overall I feel very pragmatic and strategic about it.

4 (18m 17s):
All of these issues that that are popular with Democrats, he has not only not addressed, but often gone the entire opposite way on. I mean, I can look at like almost every issue in my head that's important to me and I see a failure on Biden's part.

1 (18m 35s):
Okay, well, it's not going to be because of these voters that Joe Biden loses. The reason Joe Biden is going to lose if he loses, is because he's gonna lose those independent voters in the middle. Again, he was perceived as the moderate alternative to Trump in 2020. He is no longer perceived as a moderate alternative to Trump. And that's gonna be particularly true if the economy continues to basically stagger along. Now the entire media are invested in the idea that we have now avoided a recession, that the economy is booming, everything is going amazingly well. The Washington Post has an entire piece at the top of their website today titled, everyone Expected a Recession. The Fed and White House found a way out. Wow. Amazing. Sure. We've had complete wage stagnation in the country for the last three years. Sure, everything costs a bajillion dollars More than it did just a couple of years ago, but they avoided a recession technically now, actually they didn't.

1 (19m 19s):
If you recall last year, we actually did have a couple of consecutive quarters of negative growth, which technically qualifies as a recession. But if the idea here is that we're avoiding a gigantic recession in favor of Obama esque stagnation for a long period of time, that's probably true and that stagnation is going to get worse because there are a few economic factors that cut in favor of the idea that the stock market, for example, is actually ahead of where the Federal Reserve is. We'll get to that in just one second.

PreBorn! (19m 45s):
We need to ramp up our efforts to save the lives of innocent babies. I can't stress this enough. Because of our partnership with Pre-Born, an organization dedicated to saving the lives of the unborn, we can do just that every day. Pre Born's network of clinics rescues 200 babies as they compete head to head with the abortion giants. Pre-Born offers free ultrasounds to moms or considering abortion. Once those moms see their babies and hear the heartbeats, they're twice as likely to choose life. And now through a match, your tax deductible gift is double too. Because pre-born supports both moms and babies with diapers, car seats, counseling and more. You are offering double blessings. Now is the time to put your year and write offs to work. Please double down today. So you're not gonna do anything more important today. So dial pound two 50 on your phone, say keyword baby. That is pound 2 5 0 baby. Or donate securely a preborn.com/bengan. That's preborn.com/ Ben. You can save a life and change lives by giving to Preborn and making sure that mom gets an ultrasound. Because when mom sees the baby growing inside her so often, she changes her mind about giving that kid a shot at life. Dial pound two 50 and say Keyword baby today to get started with our friends over at Pre-Born.

Christian Care Ministry (20m 48s):
Also, as a DailyWire listener, you're not just informed, you are also engaged. You value freedom and personal responsibility, which is why you need to check out Medi-Share Medi-Share is a community-based approach to healthcare that lines up with the principles you believe in your values matter. And with Medi-Share, your healthcare dollars will not be used for medical procedures that don't line up with your beliefs. Medi Share is the highest rated healthcare sharing Ministry the 30 year proven track record. It's not health insurance. It's a community of over 400,000 believers committed to caring and sharing with one another. Members save up to 50% or more on their monthly healthcare costs. Member satisfaction surveys show they like Medi-Share much, much More than health insurance. Why? Well, because it works for limited time DailyWire listeners will receive a $150 gift card when they join Medi-Share. To find out more, go to Medi-Share dot com slash Ben and that's Medi-Share dot com slash Ben. Terms and conditions do apply. And why rely on the government when instead you could rely on Mesha the highest rated healthcare sharing Ministry 30 year proven track record community of 400,000 believers. Go get started with them right now at Medi-Share dot com slash Ben alrightyy.

1 (21m 48s):
Meanwhile, the Biden administration, they're again, I still think economically speaking their they're whistling past the graveyard. So the inflation stats have come down, they've come down because a lot of supply chains have now been restored. The supply chain problem was in fact a massive contributing factor to inflation. Biden wasn't lying about that. Now you added on top of that with record spending into an economy that had too few goods flowing through it. And as the supply chains have opened back up, the number of goods has risen and it is moving toward meeting the amount of money that is flowing through the system. However, they, because of their cowardly foreign policy, they are now experiencing the possibility of serious problems on the supply chain.

1 (22m 29s):
Again, that is happening in the Suez Canal. According to the Wall Street, Journal US unveiled a multinational naval force to protect merchant vessels in the Red Sea after who the rebel attacks threatened the Suez Canal central role in global trade. On Monday, the Pentagon said it was establishing a security operation to protect seaborne traffic from ballistic missiles and drone attacks launched by the HHI groups in Yemen. That effort called Operation Prosperity Guardian will include the uk, Bahrain, France, Norway, and other countries. Many of the world's biggest shipping lines. Oil producers in other cargo owners in recent days started diverting vessels from the entire region, prompting a massive spike in oil prices and general insurance rates. In fact, European natural gas prices had surged by as much as 13% in the middle of the disruption of the energy flow caused by these ragtag group of who the Pirates, US officials tried to secure the support of Saudi Arabia and the UAE.

1 (23m 17s):
The two countries have opted to stay out for now because they're not sure what exactly to do with the Houthis and they're deeply afraid that Iran is going to attack UAE or Saudi Arabia in retaliation for them getting involved in stopping the Houthis, the oil giant BP On Monday was the latest company to halt its tankers from sailing through the Red Sea. Now for, for all the people who tend to believe that foreign policy has no impact on how you live your life, that obviously is untrue. Things get way more expensive when these seas are not free for trade. And let's be real about this, the economic development of the past couple centuries and a half has been due in large part to two main factors. First, the British Empire in control of the seas, and second, the American Navy in control of the sea. That would be an order if those two things do not happen, you can forget about your cheap goods at the store.

1 (23m 58s):
You can forget about being able to afford all the nice things you can afford. I know there is this weird take out there that somehow foreign policy doesn't affect you in any way or that your life would be significantly better if you did not have cheaper goods available to you. I'm just wondering how that is. Th this this strange idea that our lives on a material level, forget about a spiritual level on a material level, are somehow not better than they were in 1980 is so ridiculous On every possible level, you have a bigger house than you did in 1980. You have more devices than you did in 1980. You probably have Central Air. You didn't have that in 1980. You probably have a much better car than you did in 1980. All of that is because of supply chains. Economics is not a simple case of it's separate from foreign policy.

1 (24m 41s):
It requires free movement of goods and services across bottlenecked trade lanes. The Red Sea is one such trade lane. The Bao Man Strait is one such trade lane. This has canal is a trade lane. The time on straits are a trade lane. All these places are trade lanes. These are hot points that can absolutely crush you at the supermarket if they're not guaranteed by a Western Navy. And the reality that the United States is only now starting to say, okay, maybe we'll escort some ships through the Babo, Manum Strai, or whatever it is, again, that is going to have some pretty significant knock on effects. If the Red Sea becomes no-go zone for most tankers, according to the Wall Street Journal, it would redraw the global oil market for the second time in two years after the war on Ukraine and related sanctions, forced Russia to find new markets for its petroleum that could send oil prices and tanker rates vaulting higher.

1 (25m 28s):
According to Richard Matthews research director at EA Gibson Ship Brokers, he says, all you know is it's gonna cause chaos. Everything's gonna Get a lot more expensive. As of Monday morning, Matthews said most tanker companies were still willing to send their vessels through the shipping chokepoint preventing a jump in prices. But if the who these continue their attacks in these particular areas, then things are going to get worse. Now, there are two ways to prevent those attacks in in these areas. There's really only one way, okay, the only way to prevent the attacks in the areas by blowing the pirates outta the water. That's really the only way to do that because you can pretend that if you just run away from the area, that magically terrorist groups are not going to then attempt to do the same thing and grab money and ransom these ships, for example. But that's not true. So I'm glad that the Biden administration, as always late, is attempting to do something about this.

1 (26m 10s):
But again, cowardly foreign policy ends with much, much worse economic circumstances for American taxpayers. And you add onto that, the fact that we are about to enter into the era of big taxes and the weak foreign policy, high tax economy of the United States, which is very reminiscent in the 1970s, it's not gonna be great. The 1970s were a time where we had overspent and we decided to recede on foreign policy. And the combination of those two factors led to much higher prices at home. It led to a stagnating economy. It led to people in gas lines that could come back fairly easily. According to the Wall Street, Journal rich countries are raising more money from taxpayers than they have in decades to finance a burst of state spending.

1 (26m 50s):
As surging interest rates make borrowing less attractive. Tax revenues have risen to record levels as a share of economic output in a number of major economies, including France, Japan, and South Korea. The increases are worth hundreds of billions of dollars in additional revenue for governments that are navigating an array of new spending needs from military priorities to industrial policy. So governments continue to spend in order to keep up with that spending, they're going to have to increase the tax revenue in order to do that, they're gonna have to jack up the taxes. It's something that Joe Biden has wanted to do for quite a while. Now, the United States has been able to rely on the fact that we are still the best bet on the block when it comes to our debt because we're still the strongest economy. There will come a point when that is no longer true. In fact, we're fast approaching that point when no one's gonna wanna actually buy us debt because of the possibility that down the road we're not gonna actually repay that debt or we're gonna inflate our way out of it.

1 (27m 35s):
and that means increases in taxes in the 20 Nation Euro zone. According to the Wall Street Journal government spending will reach half of the region's economic output this year, according to the IMF in the United States state spending stands at 38% of GDP and the entire GP of the country. The country is now spending 38% of that on social services. And such new costs are coming down the track too because the country and the west are getting older. We have baked into the cake extraordinary mandatory spending programs, and the only way to pay for that is to increase the taxes. You can try to grow your way out of it, but you're not gonna grow your way out of it given the policies, the regulatory and business policies pursued by this administration.

1 (28m 16s):
If you don't grow your way out of it, then you're not gonna be able to pay for any of this stuff without radically raising taxes or radically inflating the currency or both. And the Federal Reserve knows this, by the way. So right now, the stock market is a little bit disconnected from the Federal Reserve. So the Federal Reserve announced the other day that they were not going to be raising the interest rates. And this was taken as a sign that inflation has been defeated in the United States and the Federal Reserve knows it. And so pretty soon they're gonna start lowering those interest rates, which will make it easier to Get a mortgage. You'll make your credit card rates go down and all the rest and people are getting very enthusiastic. Okay, well I'm gonna take that money, I'm gonna put it right back in the stock market. That's kind of the basic idea. But the problem is people are doing that now in anticipation of the Fed lowering the interest rates. They're actually a little bit ahead of the market at this point as Muhammad Al Arian is saying, Muhammad Al Arian is an excellent financial analyst.

1 (29m 1s):
He's saying that if right now people are expecting the Fed to lower the interest rates and then they don't lower the interest rates in the next year as much as expected, the stock market will drop. So again, Joe Biden's economy is on tenor hooks because of many systemic problems created over the course of decades and then exacerbated by Joe Biden. Now again, as we mentioned a moment ago, some of that exacerbation is being driven by events in the Middle East. Now, the best way to guarantee the freedom of the season in the Middle East is to you know, not let pirates push you around is to not let the Iranians push you around in the region. And one of the best ways to not let the Iranians push you around in the region is that when one of the Iranian proxy groups commits the worst terror attack since nine 11, you let an ally of the United States completely destroy that terror group.

1 (29m 44s):
That'd be an excellent way to throw Iran off of this, to push them back, to contain them, so to speak, without going directly to war with them cutting off the arms of the octopus. If you're not willing to go directly at the head, Israel for its part wants to do exactly that. Right now, Israel is attempting to push another Iranian proxy with Hezbollah off their northern border. They wanna prevent another conflict like the one that is currently happening. According to Axios, Israel told the Biden administration, it wants Hezbollah's forces to be pushed roughly six miles from the border as part of a diplomatic deal to end tensions with Lebanon. The Biden administration is deeply concerned that escalating border skirmishes could lead to an all-out war that would be even worse than the Gaza conflict. and that of course is true. But if Israel is forced into a war, Hezbollah, Israel is not gonna hold back.

1 (30m 26s):
Israel is holding back in Gaza they are. That's why they've got 131 dead soldiers over the course of the last couple of months in the Gaza Strip. That is not going to apply in an arena where Hezbollah is far better armed and has rockets capable of reaching the entirety of Israel. The Israeli government says publicly that in order to allow Israeli citizens to go back to their homes, the situation needs to change either through de diplomacy or military action. The tensions on the border with Lebanon were one of the main issues under discussion between Secretary of Defense, Lloyd Austin and Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, minister of Defense, y Glans in Tel Aviv. They want Hezbollah not to be allowed to go back to their positions along the border, which Israel destroyed in the last couple of months.

1 (31m 6s):
Again, Israel, they have 30,000 citizens who are currently not living in their homes. They're not going to allow this to continue the way that it is. But one of the preconditions to a solid foreign policy is not wish casting foreign policy. Unfortunately, the United States seems to be in the weird position of being half realist and half wish casting. So on the realist side, Lloyd Austin, yesterday, he was in Israel and he said he's not here to dictate timelines to the Israeli government

5 (31m 30s):
Regarding the timeline. This is Israel's operation. And I'm not here to dictate timelines or terms. Our support to Israel's right to defend itself is ironclad, as you've heard me say a number of times. And that's not gonna change. It's critical, as I said earlier, that Hama Hamas not be able to threaten Israel from Gaza or even threaten Gaza anymore.

1 (32m 4s):
Okay? But then Lloyd Austin starts his wish cast and he says, Hamas does not speak for the Palestinian people. Now why does this matter? It matters because there's this weird idea that is prevalent in American foreign policy circles that the Palestinian Authority run by Abbu Mazen maba, who is an actual holocaust denying terrorist supporter. His actual government has law that pays people who kills Jews. Right now there's this weird idea that the Palestinian Authority, which enjoys an extraordinarily low approval rating in the West Bank where it has governed tyrannical for the last 20 years. Abbu Mazen is now in the 17th year of a four year term. They haven't held an election in 17 years. And if an election were held today, Hamas would win in the West Bank. This idea requires Israel to then make concessions to Iranian proxies that will then maximize their power.

1 (32m 50s):
Again, don't wish Cass foreign policy folks, it's a bad mistake. Here is Lloyd Austin doing just that.

5 (32m 57s):
Hamas is still holding hostages, including American citizens. Hamas embeds itself and hides itself behind innocent Palestinian civilians. Hamas does not speak for the Palestinian people, and Hamas is determined to doom both Israelis and Palestinians to an unending cycle of suffering and strife.

1 (33m 26s):
So all of that is true, except for Hamas does not represent the Palestinian people. What evidence does he have that that's not, that that's not the case and not Hamas and who? And it's weird idea that you can just hand over the Gaza Strip to the Palestinian authority and this will somehow guarantee Israeli security and Palestinian security is totally insane. In just one second, we'll get to the other side of the aisle because Joe Biden obviously has very low approval ratings, but some Republican is going to have to beat him in order to take him outta the White House

Black Rifle Coffee Company (33m 49s):
first holiday prepping giant pain in the butt. It feels like there's not enough time in the day. Some people are just very, very difficult to shop for. Well, Black Rifle Coffee has a solution for you. Their December Coffee of the Month is a Costa Rican Arabica coffee that delivers tasting notes of chocolate citrus and Maple Delicious Black Rifle Coffee is a veteran founded coffee company operated by principled men and women who honor those who protect defendants support our country with every purchase you make. They give back, stop running out of coffee, sign up for a coffee club subscription. They have Black Rifle Coffee delivered straight to your door on a Schedule Coffee Club subscribers receive their high quality coffee at lower prices with free shipping, plus they get early access to exclusive deals and prices. Save money. Drink America's coffee, go to Black Rifle Coffee dot com. Use promo co Shapiro checkout for 10% off your one-Time purchase or first coffee club order. That's Black Rifle Coffee dot com promo Coach Shapiro, get 10% off. You can also find Black Rifle Coffee in grocery and convenience stores near you. Black Rifle Coffee is America's coffee. Go check them out right now. It's basically the only thing keeping our offices running. We got back very, very late last night from a holiday party in Nashville. Lot of Black, Rifle Coffee went into the veins of all of our employees over here. Black, Rifle, Coffee, go check them out right now.

Daily Wire Plus (34m 56s):
Also, our DailyWire Christmas sale. It's happening right this very moment. Get 30% off when you give the gift of DailyWire Plus for The. Daily Wire fans on your list this year. And yes, that includes access to our new kids app Bentkey, with over 20 titles and hundreds of episodes streaming right now that require no pre-screening because of all the content made for kids. It's a great gift for your kids with new episodes every single Saturday. It's the return of Saturday morning cartoons for your kids. We love all the attention Bentkey has been getting with hundreds of five star views from our users. Even the New York Times has an opinion on Bentkey, of course, a crazy opinion about how Chip chill is really bad and celebrates quote unquote dead white people in American history like you know George Washington and Walter Cronkite. The New York Times also says, chip Chilla portrays engaged fathers as establishing male authority. Yeah, that's right. Fathers in the home that's bad, says the New York Times. Well download the Bentkey app, access kids content anytime, anywhere on multiple devices, whether they're home for the holidays or traveling to see friends and family you can enjoy ad free uninterrupted streaming to help keep the kids entertained. Speaking of the holidays, Bentkey has some truly magical Christmas themed episodes streaming right now, including a fan favorite Gus plus us. If you haven't heard the Christmas song, the Greatest Gift from Guss Plus Us yet, take a quick listen Because we've got joy when we've got each other. And the reason for the season is the time we'll spend with one another. And all the lights this year will shine brighter because love came down and the spirits here and we'll together. This Again that's from Plus US Christmas special. It's streaming right now exclusively on Bentkey. It's the best gift for your kids this year. My kids love Bentkey. They watch Bentkey every day. If you're a DailyWire Plus member, you already have full access to Bentkey. If you're not, there's never been a better time to join the fight. And help us reshape culture right now. Give the gift to The Daily Wire plus membership for 30% off at DailyWire dot com slash subscribe.

1 (36m 52s):
Well, meanwhile, on the other side of the aisle, Donald Trump running a campaign against Chip Roy I don, okay, you know, we're gonna have to bring back good Trump, bad Trump because that's just the reality of Trump. Sometimes he says good things and sometimes he says bad things. Well, yesterday he decided once again, attack Chip Roy, one of the most conservative members of the House Republican Caucus. He said, has any smart and energetic Republican in the great state of Texas decided to run in the primary against Rhino Congressman Chip Roy for the right person? He's very beatable. If interested, let me know. Guess just be very clear. Chip Roy is one of the best Congress people in America. He's an excellent Congress person, deeply conservative. He's one of the people who pride concessions away from Kevin McCarthy. So if you liked those concessions, thank Chip Roy Chip is again, an excellent thinker, super conservative Donald Trump doesn't like him because he did not go along with the idea that Donald Trump won the 2020 election.

1 (37m 41s):
And he's still pissed about it. And by the way, this is really stupid. And when I say it's stupid, I mean it is technically stupid. The primary ballot is not open. It is too late to get on the primary ballot against Chip Roy. That's seven days after the Texas primary filing deadline passed, and which is again, tweeting things or putting things out on truth. Social does not manifest them in the world. Now this should be a point of annoyance for a lot of conservatives. It really should. But the biggest problem is that again, conservatives, they basically trust Trump. They've watched him be president for four years. The policies that he promoted were pretty conservative. And so they've learned to basically discount anything that he says on truth social, which means that there are not a lot of amazing lines of attack by his opponents in their Republican primaries against him.

1 (38m 23s):
Ron DeSantis line of attacks is gonna be, I am more trustworthy as a conservative, I'm the best conservative governor of your lifetime. And all of that is true. But if the baseline level of trust from the conservative public is very high for Trump, very hard to out flank him that way. This seems to be DeSantis continued message. And again, in a primary, primary held today, I vote for DeSantis over Trump and Hailey, but DeSantis now this line of attack is not gonna be fruitful against Donald Trump. He says Trump could have, pardon nonviolent January 6th protestors, he chose not to out Puring, Donald Trump is not going to work.

7 (38m 56s):
Well, it's interesting on the, on the, the January 6th protests, I mean he, he called that rally knowing that that was gonna be in DC where, where things could get potentially outta hand. And he's now saying he would do clemency for the, I guess the nonviolent. But he could have done that when he was president. He could have said, look, this was, he could have taken responsibility. He could have said that the people that when not the violent people, obviously that's a different, different, it's a bird of a different feather. But on the people that were there just as protestors and kind of got caught up in it, he could have granted clemency to them and he chose not to because I think he was told that if he did that he could potentially risk being convicted at his Senate impeachment trial.

7 (39m 38s):
So the idea that now he's going to help people that were railroaded, he could have done that before he left office.

1 (39m 46s):
Okay, so DeSantis is totally correct about all of this of course, but that's assuming that the conservative public is deeply interested in Trump's policy positions, which they are not. Meanwhile, DeSantis is turning his guns on Nikki Haley, and he's saying that she exemplifies everything that Trump supporters oppose, which again is weird because she was the UN ambassador under Trump, very pro-Trump throughout his administration. She's flip flopped on Trump a little bit post his administration. He's not wrong about this. Again, if you look at the polls, Trump's supporters are likely to shift. If DeSantis exits the race, they're not likely to shift to Haley DeSantis. They, they DeSantis voters would move over to Trump in all likelihood, which is again, why both of these candidates are very unlikely to, to defeat Trump in the nomination fight.

1 (40m 27s):
Just speaking technically and looking at the polls right now. But here was DeSantis going after Nikki Haley yesterday.

7 (40m 34s):
So she's not gonna win a Republican primary. So what she's there to do is to take some votes from people who don't want Trump and really I think, ensure that Trump has a better path to be able to go. Interestingly, Donald Trump, so Trump's core supporters do not like Haley because everything they claim they're against establishment, globalism, liberal Wall Street donors, not on and on that, that's Haley, right? And yet when Trump is asked, can you categorically rule out her as vice president, he will not rule her out as vice president.

1 (41m 12s):
Now again, he's right about all of this, but is that line of attack on a bear fruit, probably not New Hampshire, where again, Nikki Haley is, is now in second place by a pretty significant margin. It'll be interesting to see what happens in Iowa. Meanwhile, Haley's angle on Trump continues to be that he's too old and you know, maybe that line works a little bit better, but the reality is that he's going up against Joe Biden who's dead. So I'm not sure that line works either. This is the biggest problem, the most plausible line against Trump from December, 2022, was he loses elections a lot and because he loses elections a lot, you don't wanna lose the upcoming election. But nobody was able to jump in in time to capture that message before Biden started sinking enough in the polls that now Trump is beating him in virtually every poll.

1 (41m 53s):
Here's Nikki Haley going after going after Donald Trump yesterday.

8 (41m 58s):
Now a clear second place, Nikki Haley is behind Trump in the first in the nation primary state, and on the heels of those new numbers, she's also launching a new ad, not hitting at her Republican rivals, but right at President Biden,

9 (42m 13s):
I'll just say it, Biden's too old And Congress is the most exclusive nursing home in America. Washington keeps failing because politicians from yesterday can't lead us into tomorrow. We need term limits, mental competency tests, and a real plan to defeat China and restore our economy.

1 (42m 33s):
Okay, so obviously there's an ad against Biden. It's not really an ad against Biden, it's really much more about Trump, right? I mean, she's running against Trump in a primary, so when she says too old, what she really means is Trump is that likely to end with Trump not winning the nomination. Again, I'm not seeing a lot of fruitful line of attacks against Trump at this point in the race, just technically speaking. But Trump is also not held to any of the same rules as normal politicians. He's literally out there attacking one of the best Congress people in America right now, and conservatives are like me. So I'm not, I wish I knew what to do about that. I, I honestly don't know the answer. Meanwhile, Democrats are not what to do about Trump either. So they're just going with the Trump is Hitler routine again. So Douglas Brinkley, he's out there doing this routine. This is gonna be them all the way up to the election. As I say, and let me just say something. No one in America thinks Trump is Hitler. No one thinks this.

1 (43m 14s):
And there may be some crazy leftists who believe this. In reality, there's a column at that Washington Post yesterday that pointed this out. People actually look at Trump's policies and what he says on policy, and they're like, he seems like kind of a confused moderate, like really, conservatives know that he did a lot of conservative things, but most people are pretty disconnected from politics. And here's what Donald Trump has said on major issues, major controversial issues. Okay? He has said on abortion, don't know what to do about it. We'll come to a universal consensus, which is a quote unquote moderate position. It is not a pro-life position, okay? He has said when it comes to things like giant entitlement Pro, not gonna touch them, terrible bullion crap, Orion, he wanted to touch, I'm not touching me entitlements, right? So that that is a quote unquote moderate position when it comes to lgbtq plus minus divided by sign issues.

1 (43m 57s):
He's like, Caitlyn Jenner can use the girl's bathroom, totally fine with me, don't care. And like every hot button issue, Trump has taken a quasi moderate position. He is not in fact a hardcore conservative. And also when people say he's an authoritarian, that's assuming a level of competence that he has not demonstrated in being an authoritarian. So this kind of crap from Douglas Brinkley is not going to work. We get to that in just one

ZipRecruiter (44m 20s):
second. First, if you know the audio engineer field, it's typically not filled with joy and laughter. Our audio engineer, Mike Corina, no exception, I've asked him to cheer up for, I don't, it's been almost a decade at this point. He's, he's not going to listen, he's just going to remain as dour as ever. But we love Mike for all of that because he's an excellent, excellent audio engineer despite the fact that he is not exactly gonna to pep in your step with his personality. I see you, Mike, I see you. But this is why we need more da. Listen, I love our Dower employees. They're some of my favorites. That's why we need more of you and we're gonna go to ZipRecruiter to get them. If you're a business owner and you need to grow your team, your perfect gift is simple. You want a smart hiring solution, look no further than ZipRecruiter right now. ZipRecruiter is giving it to you for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Now, you might be asking how ZipRecruiter is a gift to people who are hiring? Good thing you ask. ZipRecruiter uses smart matching technology to identify the most qualified people for a wide variety of roles. ZipRecruiter lets top candidates know when they're a great match for your job to encourage them to apply the bow on top. If you see a candidate who's a great match for your job, ZipRecruiter makes it easy to send them a personal invite so they're much more likely to apply. Get your hiring wrapped up quickly with ZipRecruiter Four out five employers who post on ZipRecruiter will Get a quality candidate within day one. Just go to this exclusive web address right now and try it for free. ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. That's ZipRecruiter dot com slash D-A-I-L-Y-W-I-R-E. ZipRecruiter is the smartest way to hire

9 (45m 40s):
my, as I say, the Democratic proposal is that Donald Trump must lose because he's an authoritarian and we don't like authoritarians except for when Joe Biden is using his pen and his phone to try to mandate that 80 million people take a vaccination or lose their jobs and then, then they like authoritarians or like when they try to just buy dint of executive order, get rid of hundreds of billions of dollars in student loan debt and then the Supreme Court says no and then they do it anyway.

1 (46m 5s):
Which is the thing that's literally happening right now. They've still been dispersing funds. I'm not kidding, in violation of Supreme court ruling. Doesn't matter. The real authoritarians are people like Donald Trump. Again, not look at that truth, social and tell me that what you're looking here is what you're saying. Here is a burgeoning Mussolini or Hitler look at his truth. Social dude doesn't know how to capitalize, right guys, he misspells basic words like I, when he was president of the United States, his authoritarianism amounted to him saying things on Twitter that he then didn't do. But this is gonna be their entire, like no one thinks Donald Trump is this scary. Seriously, I, I'm sorry. Like even people who are, who are suggesting that January 6th was a massive crisis level event for the problem, not just an ugly horrible thing that happened, which I agree.

1 (46m 50s):
Ugly, horrible, bad images of people storming the capitol, building, hurting police officers and all the rest. That was not an existential crisis for the United States, not remotely. It was a bunch of adults and some people who are like in good faith there and wandering the halls who held up the procedure for like two hours and then that was it. But they're still going with the Trump Hitler thing here.

10 (47m 11s):
Poison, which has invaded the national body, especially the strong influx of foreign blood that is from Amp. As a historian, Doug, what did you hear in the former President's remarks?

11 (47m 27s):
Hmm. I heard a former president who is jiving on fascism. There's no question about that being a line from Mein Comp. He knows it. He's been dabbling in Adolf Hitler his whole life keeps Hitler's speeches at a bedside. Mein comp seems to be the book that's inspired Trump the most. So it's heinous because it's, it's the kind of language meant to belittle people. Dehumanize them. And when we're not making a, an anti-Trump comment when we're saying he is a fascist, guys that really we're dealing with a, a fight in our country between democracy and fascism.

11 (48m 6s):
And Trump's telling you that he's not, he doesn't really mind the Hitler comparison because at heart he admires Hitler.

1 (48m 14s):
Ah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like, really? Who buys this? Seriously? Does anyone buy this? Meanwhile, Eddie Glad's doing the same routine on MSNB, cm, SNBC, the Trump is Hitler channel. They say that Trump is tapping into longstanding illiberal tradition. Again, hearing people on the left talk about illiberal traditions as they simultaneously shut down free speech on campuses, tell people that they're not allowed to use the biological pronouns, use the power of the pen and the, and the phone to do whatever they damn dwell, please. I, I'm, I'm having some trouble squaring the circle here.

12 (48m 47s):
Remember, Nazi lawyers in the 1930s are actually looking to American law, anti anti misogyny law, immigration law as examples, amp actually quotes the American project as an exemplary project. Remember in 1939 in Madison Square Garden, there's an extraordinary Nazi reality. So part of what Trump has done, he's tapped into a longstanding illiberal tradition in the United States, and he is exploiting it. So we need to see the newness of it, but also see what is actually quite familiar.

1 (49m 20s):
Hmm. By the way, some of the biggest supporters of Mussolini Hitler in the early 1930s, people in the Democratic Party, including by the way, FDR. Alright guys, the rest of the show is continuing right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be joined on the line by Trent Horn. An apologies for Catholic Answers host of the Council of Trent podcast. I wanna ask him about the statement from the Vatican about blessings of same sex couples. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

Genucel (49m 49s):
I've got a holiday gift idea that's sure to make you the hero of the season. Now we all know the holidays can be a little bit hectic. The shopping, cooking, never ending list of all the things to do. This is why you need the gift of Genu Cell Skincare. From now until Christmas, genu Cell's most popular package has a special discount. Just for my listeners at Genucel dot com slash Shapiro, treat yourself and your loved ones to the absolute best skincare in the world. These troubling forehead wrinkles, fine line skin, redness, sagging jawline, all that disappears right before your eyes. With genu cell's most popular collection Genucel promises immediate effect. You'll see results in less than 12 hours guaranteed. Or your money back. Plus, including every most popular package, is your free hyaluronic acid serum for skin hydration. To restore that youthful appearance, Genelle has sent a ton of product to the office. People are loving it again. My family's been using Genucel products for like a decade. At this point, you deserve to look and feel your best this holiday season. Head on over to genu sell.com/ SHAPIRO and get this incredible holiday discount. Every order today is instantly upgraded to free express shipping. That's Genucel dot com slash SHAPIRO today. Again, genu sell.com/ Shapiro to get started.