0 (0s):
So clouding Gay is out, the president of Harvard now the former president is the shortest tenured president of Harvard in the university's history, and it goes back several hundred years. Let us all remember just why, lest we forget. Here's the president of Harvard University. Now the former president unable to say that calls for genocide against the Jews on campus violate the college's policies on free speech

1 (22s):
And Dr. Gay at Harvard. Does calling for the genocide of Jews violate Harvard's rules of bullying and harassment? Yes or no?

2 (32s):
It can be depending on the context.

1 (34s):
What's the context?

2 (36s):
Targeted as an individual, targeted as at an individual.

1 (40s):
It's targeted at Jewish students. Jewish individuals. Do you understand your testimony is dehumanizing them? Do you understand that dehumanization is part of antisemitism? I will ask you one more time. Does calling for the genocide of Jews violate Harvard's rules of bullying and harassment? Yes or no?

2 (1m 3s):
Anti-Semitic rhetoric when it crosses

1 (1m 5s):
Into crime, and is it antisemitic rhetoric,

2 (1m 7s):
Anti-Semitic rhetoric when it crosses into conduct that amounts to bullying, harassment, intimidation that is actionable conduct and we do take action.

1 (1m 18s):
So the answer is yes. That calling for the genocide of Jews violates Harvard code of conduct, correct?

2 (1m 28s):
Again, it depends on the context. It

1 (1m 30s):
Does not depend on the context. The answer is yes, and this is why you should resign. These are unacceptable answers across the board.

0 (1m 39s):
Gay made those statements after issuing a weak statement complaining about death and destruction unleashed on October 7th in Israel without any reference to Hamas. Harvard students testified about their feelings of unease on campus, unease underscored by actual attempted violence against some pro-Israel students, allegedly, including by members of the Harvard Law Review after that insane exchange with Stefanik. After all, Harvard isn't exactly a hotbed of free speech being one of the most restrictive campuses in America on a wide variety of hot button topics. Clouding Gay came under even more fire. The Washington Free Beacon did Pulitzer level work in uncovering her academic charlatanism. By mid-December, the free beacon had uncovered dozens of allegations of her plagiarism. Then on Monday night, the free beacon revealed even more examples of plagiarism.

0 (2m 21s):
What Harvard euphemistically term quote, duplicative language without proper attribution and duplicative language without proper attribution is called plagiarism. There's a word for it, but still Harvard tried to keep her on. They had to, she of course was the poster child for their core philosophy, diversity, equity and inclusion, or DEI, which suggests that all inequality of group outcome is due to some sort of discrimination in the system that can only be corrected for by forms of actual discrimination in practice to allow that clouding. Gay should never have gotten the position she was in, that her academic record was scanty, that she had involved herself in no original groundbreaking work, heavy emphasis on the word original. There would've been to admit that she actually got the job because she was a black female.

0 (3m 4s):
And so the leftist powers that bee had to maintain that she actually deserved the job. The head of the NAACP said that those who wanted gay to go were engaging in quote, nothing more than theatrics advancing a white supremacist agenda. Dozens of black Harvard faculty members wrote an open letter proclaiming any suggestion that her selection as president was the result of a process that elevated an unqualified person based on considerations of race and gender are species and politically motivated. But of course, that is why she had the job, her race and her gender. She was not qualified. She had the right intersectional qualities to maintain her job. She wasn't a black male with heterodox leanings like Roland Friar, the economist who had debunked notions of disproportionate anti-black police shootings and then got ousted from Harvard over a bunch of specious allegations of sexual harassment.

0 (3m 49s):
She wasn't a Jewish male like Larry Summers from a president who was ousted after pointing out that the lack of women in STEM fields might have something to do with both skills, distribution and desire to enter the stem world by women. Clouding gay was a far left black woman and her immunity was absolute until it wasn't and it probably came not absolute 'cause people started pulling their money. Now the question is whether Americans will be satisfied to leave DEI in place with gay gone, which of course would be wrong in order to leave DEI in place. The left requires a narrative. A narrative that gay was actually a martyr because either she was a grifter who abused DEI or she was a martyr or DEI is itself a grift.

0 (4m 30s):
The left can't call her a grifter because that might open the door on all the other grifters who are members of the DEI contingent predictably, those race grifters are therefore calling her a martyr today. So Mark Lamont Hill, who makes an entire living suggesting that virtually all inequality in American life is the result of inequity. He immediately tweeted the next president of Harvard University must be a black woman. Why? Why clouding G did such a spectacular job that we need someone who looks just like her. Like wh why? Why or for example, Nicole Hannah Jones, who's made an entire living off of being an absolutely unqualified hack historian, terrible at her job, hasn't written anything for the New York Times in a couple of years, I believe keeps getting offered professorial positions despite her complete botch of American history.

0 (5m 16s):
She tweeted out, well, they got what they wanted from their well executed plan. They they, they of course, presumably being the white superstructure of power in America, or for example, Cornell West, who was such a lackluster academic when he was at Harvard University, that he was ousted for never having written anything. He literally had released a rap album and no papers and so they got rid of him. I was there when this happened and then he ended up at Princeton because this is the way that it works. if you have the right intersectional qualifications in American academic life, you fail upwards. Cornell West tweeted out how sad but predictable that the same figures and forces enabling the ethnic cleansing and genocidal attacks on Palestinians and Gaza, Ackman Bloom summers and others push out the first black woman president of Harvard.

0 (6m 4s):
Ah, you see, it's all the Jewish conspiracy to get rid of cloudy and gay. This racism against both Palestinians and black people is undeniable and despicable. So clouding gago and that's racism against Palestinians. I have experienced similar attacks from the same forces in academia with too many of my colleagues remaining silent when big money dictates university policy and raw power dictates foreign policy. The moral bankruptcy of American education and democracy looms large, but we shall remain strong in our fight for truth. Justice loves as Cornell West who's been spending his day standing up for Kamas who love neither truth nor justice, nor love or Aha Ali, a deeply terrible columnist who tweeted out Chris Ruffo and Bad Faith right wing actors win again.

0 (6m 50s):
Oh, you mean because Chris Ruffo reported that she was a plagiarist. I'm sorry that journalism happened to you. That's a sad one, that journalism happened to you. Meanwhile, IBER Max Kendi tweeted out repeatedly on the matter. He suggested quote, when a racist mob attacks a black person, it finds a seemingly legitimate reason for the attack that allows for it to accrue popular support and credibility, which allows for the growing mob to deny they're attacking the person in this way because the person is black. Now, I mean What's weird about this is that Liz McGill, who is the president of Penn, is no longer the president of Penn and she's a white lady and she was ousted without any allegations of plagiarism because she made the comments that she made in front of Elise de Fannick over at University of Pennsylvania.

0 (7m 32s):
Also, this is not the first president of a major university to be ousted over research misconduct. Mark Tessier Levine of Stanford had resigns over research misconduct. That was just back in July when all that long ago. But er Max Kendi says that effectively speaking, anytime a black person is called to account for their own sins, which is what happened with clouding gay. That is an aspect of racism and all the rest of it is basically just for show Edward Max Kendi, who is indeed the DEI Grifter par excellence, a person who cannot define the term racism without reference to the word racism. He literally defines the term racism as racism is a series of racist policies in pursuit of a racist ideology, which is the most circular definition you could possibly imagine.

0 (8m 18s):
Imex Kendi has cleared tens of millions of dollars for being a terrible scholar who lies about America and American history. Imex Kendi responded to a tweet from someone saying quote, we are returning to a colorblind performance based society where we judge people by their character, effort, and achievements. And Kennedy says, this is the propaganda of history to use WEB Dub Blas term, that they want people to believe that we should return to the colorblind performance based society of mass incarceration, of Jim Crow, of concentration camps, of lynchings, of slavery, of settler colonialism. Yes, because those, those were the choices. The choices were keep clouding gay or you are in favor of mass incarceration.

0 (8m 59s):
Jim Crow concentration camps, lynchings, slavery, and settler colonialism. According to Iber Max Ken, again, the reason they're all standing up for clouding gay is because once the grift is exposed, it can no longer be used. And they require, they require the grift to be used. They, of course are the beneficiaries of the grift. This is why all the grifters are outta the woodwork on this one. It's why Al Sharpton is out there making his usual grifting statements. Al Sharpton, who spent his entire adult life lying about America and by the Way overtly lying about situations including Tona Browley in helping to incite riots in New York. I mean that guy who has a show on M-S-N-B-C specifically because he's a quote unquote black leader.

0 (9m 40s):
The what flock he leads is up to anybody to, to discover. He says, quote, president Gay's resignation is about more than a person or a single incident. This is an attack on every black woman in this country who's put a cla, a crack in the glass ceiling. So question for the black women in the country. Are all of you Plagiarists? Why exactly would her being ousted for being a bad president who shields antisemitism on her campus and also a plagiarist, why would that have any impact on you? This is super confusing to me. I gotta, I gotta tell you I mean when, when, when Mark Tessier Levine was ousted from Stanford University and that's a white dude, he's a Canadian American. I didn't think, wow, a ceiling has now been set up for Canadian American white dudes.

0 (10m 25s):
It's a weird take. But the unspoken assumption here obviously is that the reason that she was put in place is because she was a black woman. Therefore, the reason that she was removed from her position is because she was a black woman. The reality is she was removed from her position despite the fact that she was a black woman. Harvard was fighting as hard as it could to maintain her. This presumably is why Eric Deins at NPR also tweeted quote, the intimidation is the point. Will the next president at Harvard stand for diversity? Will that person be female? Will that person be black? If not, they have forced several steps back and everyone across the school gets the message What? What steps back have been forced that you can't be a plagiarist who defends antisemitism.

0 (11m 5s):
The entire idea here is that objective standards do not exist. Objective standards are in and of themselves racist. That is the case that is being made by the DEI Grifters and by the Way. The DEI Grifters exist across methods of American media like they're everywhere. This is true, certainly in the legacy media. I'm gonna bring you the piece headline on this in just a second. 'cause it truly is an astonishing example of just how terrible our supposed journalistic outlets are.

Pure Talk (11m 32s):
First, the holidays have come and gone. Once again, you were quite generous. Don't worry though. PureTalk has your back. Instead of paying your current cell phone provider sixty, seventy, eighty bucks a line, PureTalk has unlimited plans starting just 20 bucks a month, you'll get the same phenomenal coverage you're used to on America's most dependable 5G network for just $20 a month. This is how the average family saves almost $1,000 a year. It's time to switch to a wireless company that shares your values. A company that isn't afraid to invest in shows like mine. A company that is veteran owned and serves veterans. So what exactly are you waiting for? Switch to PureTalk in as little as 10 minutes and start saving today. Their US customer service team is waiting to serve you. Go to PureTalk dot com slash Shapiro right now. You'll save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage. They've an excellent tower network. I've been using PureTalk myself for a couple of years now. They're great and they don't cost me a lot of money. Go to PureTalk dot com slash Shapiro, get connected right now. Again, PureTalk dot com slash Shapiro. Start off that you're saving on wireless with a company you can be proud of and who actually doesn't hate you. A lot of these big cell phone companies, they don't share your politics. They really don't like you very much. PureTalk the opposite. Go check them out right now, PureTalk dot com slash Shapiro and get that new phone plan started right now.

0 (12m 33s):
Okay, so how much has DI wormed its way into every nook and cranny of American society? So much so that here was the headline from the Associated Press quote. Harvard's president's resignation highlights new conservative weapon against colleges. Plagiarism. Yeah, that's, that's the new, that's the new weapon is plagiarism. Now you might say to yourself, wait, isn't plagiarism just an objective standard? Like if I lift entire paragraphs as clouding gay apparently did from somebody's work and unattributed put it into my own work, wouldn't that get me kicked out of like any school in America? The answer is yes. But the rule here when it comes to DEI and equity is that objective standards are themselves racist. If the outcome of the objective standard is racially unequal, any objective standard, if the outcome is racially unequal, the standard itself is racist and bad and quote unquote weaponized by conservatives.

0 (13m 22s):
This is the case that's been made against the SATs, against the acts, against any merit-based hiring program is why affirmative action exists. My favorite part by the Way about this Associated Press article is the the, the amazing attempt to define the word scalped. This is really funny. So Chris Ruffo, who is a friend of the show, obviously conservative activist, and he helped orchestrate this effort and helped uncover the plagiarism. He celebrated her departure as a win on acts. He wrote scalped quote as if gay was a trophy of violence, invoking a gruesome practice taken up by white colonists who sought to eradicate Native Americans. Scalped is a term that has been infrequent use on the internet for literally the entirety of the internet.

0 (14m 8s):
Nobody is invoking the idea that Chris Ruffo is standing over clouding gay with a hatchet also by the Way scalping not unique to white Americans against Native Americans. Also, the opposite was true like that. These definite like what in the world, but the idea is the very use of the word scalped. The internet use of that term is somehow a racist attack on cloudy and gay. So cloudy gay has now responded to this in her resignation letter. The entire letter is about what a victim she is. Oh, what a victim she is, quote, dear members of the Harvard community. It is with a heavy heart, but a deep love for Harvard that I write to share that I'll be stepping down as president. This is not a decision I came to easily. Indeed, it has been difficult beyond words because I've looked forward to working with so many of you to advance the commitment to academic excellence that has propelled this great university across centuries.

0 (14m 56s):
But after consultation with members of the corporation, it has become clear it's in the best interest of Harvard for me to resign so our community can navigate this moment of extraordinary challenge with a focus on the institution rather than any individual. My deep sense of connection to Harvard and its people has made it all the more painful to witness the tensions and divisions that have risen our community in recent months weakening the bonds of trust and reciprocity. That should be our sources of strength and support in times of crisis. Amidst all of this, it has been distressing to have doubt cast on my commitments to confronting hate and to upholding scholarly rigor to bedrock values that are fundamental to who I am. Nope, I I'd like to seriously where the bedrock values are confronting hate and upholding scholarly rigor. I'm pretty sure the opposite.

0 (15m 37s):
And she says, quote, it's been frightening to be subjected to personal attacks and threats fueled by racial animus. Yes, that's right. She is the victim. Everyone has been mean to clouding gay. It's been so terrible by the Way. She's not actually leaving any university. She's still gonna be making apparently $900,000 a year at Harvard University as a professor. She concludes. When I became president, I considered myself particularly blessed by the opportunity to serve people from around the world who saw in my presidency a vision of Harvard that affirmed their sense of belonging. Unless you're a Jew, to all of you, please know those doors remain open. Harvard will be stronger and better because they do. Ugh shit. What if what an honorable victim?

0 (16m 17s):
So sad, so terrible. Meanwhile, Harvard Corporation also issued a statement quasi defending clouding gay quote with great sadness. We write in light of President clouding gay's message announcing her intention to step down from the presidency and resume her faculty position at Harvard. First and foremost, we thank President Gay for her deep and unwavering commitment to Harvard and the pursuit of academic excellence through plagiarism throughout her long in distinguished leadership as Dean of Social Science and then as Dean of Faculty of Arts and Sciences, where she skillfully led the FAS through the COVID-19 pandemic and pursued ambitious new academic initiatives in areas such as quantum science and inequality. She demonstrated the insight, decisiveness, and empathy that all that are her hallmark. Wow.

0 (16m 57s):
We do so with sorrow. They said we accepted her resignation. We do so with sorrow while President Gay has acknowledged missteps and has taken responsibility for them. And it's also true. She has shown remarkable resilience in the face of deeply personal and sustained attacks. While some of this has played out in the public domain, much of it has taken the form of repugnant and in some cases racist vitriol directed at her. Through disgraceful emails and phone calls, we condemn such attacks in the strongest possible terms. This is always the last repository of victimhood is I got really bad emails and really bad phone calls. Okay, yeah. As somebody who has 24 7 security literally my entire life because there are people who don't like me very much, like grow up, grow up like I'm, I'm sorry that people were mean to you on the emails. Like that's sad that people were, those people are bad and they shouldn't send you racist emails.

0 (17m 38s):
Also, you're a terrible president who refuses to defend your students so long as they violate intersectional tenants and you're a plagiarist. They say the search for a new president of the university will begin in due course. Apparently the interim president will be a person named Garber who's the, the provost of the school. That person also shares the DEI mission, so I'm sure it'll be similarly terrible. Honestly, I was kind of happy that clouding Gay was re remaining there specifically because it is a mask for the retention of DEI to get rid of a few heads of DEI get rid of Elizabeth Gillet Penn. That doesn't solve the DEI problem. You get rid of clouding gay, then solve the DEI problem in order to solve the DEI problem. You actually have to take on the ideology of DEI, but that ideology is incredibly deeply embedded across our society.

0 (18m 24s):
From everything important to frivolous from administration, white House policy, all the way down to entertainment. This DEI notion that the best way for America to run is on the basis of group identity to establish intersectional outcomes that are equivalent regardless of individual personal action. It is wormed our way throughout the society and that needs to be extirpated everywhere. It needs to be cut out like a cancer because it is a cancer DI ideology is a cancer that destroys institutions, destroys trust, and destroys the country. It's destroyed. Harvard my alma mater. In a second, we'll see how it's having an impact on the Biden administration.

BON CHARGE (19m 1s):
First, if you're looking for a new way to optimize your health and wellness this year, you should check out bond charge. Bond Charge is a holistic wellness brand with a huge range of evidence-based products to optimize your life in every way. Their extensive range of premium wellness products helps you sleep better, perform better, recover fast, reduce inflammation, and so much more. From blue light glasses to red light therapy Bond charge products help you naturally address the issues of our modern day way of life effortlessly and with maximum impact. My favorite product from Bond Charge is their infrared sauna blanket. That infrared sauna blanket has all kinds of benefits. It's the insert for the sauna blanket. It's designed to heat to fit inside your, your sauna blanket and absorbs your sweat and help keep you drier. It uses infrared light that heats the body directly rather than the air around you like a traditional sauna, which means that you don't have to be at a higher heat in order to get the same benefits. Bond charge ships worldwide. They offer exceptional customer service. It comes with the 12 month warranty. It's gonna make you feel better. It's a great product this year. Bond charge is offering my listeners 15% off their order. Head on over to bond charge.com. Use promo code BEN for 15% off. That is bond charge.com with promo code BEN. Go check them out right now for 15% off.

0 (20m 3s):
Okay, so the problem with equity is not just that it is the driving factor, the DEI factor, it's not just at universities or in the media. It is also of course in the Biden White House and this was the promise that Joe Biden made on coming to the White House, which was a different promise than what he made during the campaign. During the campaign, he said that he was going to be a moderate who governed for all Americans. Upon entering immediately, he started talking about how equity would be at the center of everything they do, which again, equity and equality, not remotely the same thing. Equality is the idea that everyone ought to be treated equally. That is not the same thing as everyone ought to have an equal outcome, which is what equity is all about. Here's Kareem Jean Pire, who herself is a DEI product. She's terrible at her job, but she was appointed for her diversity quotient.

0 (20m 43s):
Here she is, the press secretary, suggesting that equity is again at the center of everything Joe Biden does.

3 (20m 50s):
The president has always, always put equity at the center of every policy he's put forward every legislation that he's put forward. 'cause we understand that many communities have been left behind, have been left behind. We're not trying to do the trickle down economics.

0 (21m 7s):
I mean again, she's not wrong. Every Biden policy is geared toward this idea of equal outcome and they will run rough shot over institutions, rough shot over the law in order to get there. That's why Kain and Shaere in the same interview, she's talking about how Joe Biden unilaterally took action on student loans illegally. Because again, the idea was that equity had to be established

4 (21m 27s):
Because there is an issue with young, not voters. I'm gonna answer your question and I wanna make, because they have heard from you that essentially this is something the president has tried to do and do you think that over time they start to feel like trying isn't enough?

3 (21m 41s):
No, but what I was going to say, what I was gonna finish in saying is that the president, even though his plan was stopped, he was able to take action and we were able to, we were able to get rid of about th $130 billion of debt, more than that for millions, millions of folks across the country. That matters that matter. So he still took action. He still took action even though his hands were tied.

0 (22m 6s):
Again, this is all what equity is. Equity suggests of course, that you don't actually have to work through democratic means of politics because those are all obstructionists, all those institutions obstruct equity. if you have to run right over them in pursuit of equality of outcome, you do it. And this has particular ramifications for the American border. So one of the big political conundrums that we are experiencing right now in the country is that the border is wide open. Wide open, and it is totally not understandable on a political level why precisely the border should be wide open. It's a huge mistake by Joe Biden. Again, if you look at his polling numbers, Joe Biden's polling numbers on immigration are absolutely awful. People by leaps and bounds trust Trump more than Biden with regard to immigration, his approval rating on immigration overall is down to 38% in the last Harvard caps Harris Poll, those are terrible numbers.

0 (22m 56s):
46% by the Way said that they approved of it in November and it's gonna go down even further if he doesn't stop what's going on on the border. And yet the Biden administration, which has an out right now, this is the part that's amazing. They have a political out. The Biden administration could today sign a bill, make a deal with Republicans in Congress and sign a bill that would get them Thera aid that they want and that Ukraine does in fact need, get the aid to Israel, that Israel requires in order to pursue its war with Hamas and possibly a war with Hezbollah in its north. Give arms protection to Taiwan and also solidify the border. And Joe Biden would be able on a political level to go back to his left and say, listen, you guys wanted the Ukraine aid. I couldn't get that without solidifying the border.

0 (23m 36s):
And then you could go to moderates in America and say, guys, you wanted me to do something about the border. I did something about the border. But Joe Biden won't do it. It's unbelievable. Joe Biden continues to maintain an open border position than gaslight the American people by saying that the border is in fact being taken care of. Now why is that? Why are they doing this? I mean? Here's Kain. Jean Pire doing this yesterday, suggesting that Joe Biden took the border crisis seriously from day one, which of course is a lie.

3 (23m 60s):
Now we are having, we believe, a very productive conversation in Congress with senators on how do we move forward in a bipartisan agreement to deal with the board of security. That is important. Now, what we hope is that when Congress gets backed, we'll be able to act and get these things moving forward so we can deal with this issue. We've been in touch with some of those mayors that you talked about, governors in in northern, in northern part of the country on dealing with the issue that they're dealing with on the ground. And we have provided us resources to them and we're gonna continue to have those conversations. But again, Congress needs to act. The President took this very seriously on day one.

0 (24m 41s):
The President did not take this seriously on day one. This president has done everything he can to keep that border open. Now why? Why is that the case? The answer is because there is a deep ideological belief on the left that somehow people are owed entry to the United States. And there's some people who believe that it's just a cynical ploy, that it's about bringing people in who will then vote Democrat. Maybe that's true. Quite possible. You believe that you're gonna bring a bunch of people in who are undereducated, who don't have qualifications for high level jobs, who will end up being on welfare once they're in fact given legal status by a Democratic administration. And then who will gratefully vote Democrat for the rest of time. Look at the California model. And they believe that they can broadly apply that across the country. Maybe that's the reason. It's a cynical reason, but maybe that's the reason.

0 (25m 21s):
Or maybe there's a cynical economic reason, which is that the Democratic party having facilitated policy that stagnates the economy, requires a cheap supply of labor from south of the border in order to keep that economy humming. Could be that as well. Or maybe there's something even more deeply ideological here, which is the equity argument, which is effectively that America is an unjust terrible force in the world and that the only way to pay for its sins is to keep that border wide open. Whatever it is the, the equity orientation of this administration is leading some pretty horrific policy. According to the Wall Street Journal, the Biden administration has now asked the Supreme Court to allow the border patrol to cut Texas's razor Wire.

0 (26m 1s):
So Texas has put up a bunch of razor Wire on the border to try and stop people from simply crossing in areas where there is no border crossing. And Joe Biden wants the border patrol to cut the border Wire. What is the reason for that? What would the possible rationale for that be? According to the Wall Street Journal, the Biden administration asked the Supreme Court on Tuesday to reinstate federal authority over the international boundary between Mexico and Texas. After state officials won a lower court order blocking the US border patrol from removing concertina Wire, Texas officers had installed to deter migrants from crossing a 29 mile stretch of the Rio Grande. The move represents yet another valley in the increasing conflict between Texas and the federal government, over border enforcement, state troopers and national guardsmen deployed by the state laid miles of razor Wire as part of the state's operation lone star border security effort.

0 (26m 44s):
The operation has spent or allocated more than $11 billion since 2021. They've sought to challenge the federal government's sole authority over international borders. And now the Biden administration is literally suing Texas to stop them from putting obstructions on the borders who stop illegal immigration. That's insane. That's totally wild. Like just on a practical level, why wouldn't Joe Biden look the other way? I mean that that is just clear host. So we won't enforce the immigration laws. And if you do, we will go to court to stop you from enforcing the immigration laws. Meanwhile, Corina Jean Pire is out there claiming that it's shameful that migrants are being bused to sanctuary cities. So as long as they're being imported into small towns in Texas and Arizona and New Mexico, it's totally fine.

0 (27m 26s):
The minute you send them to Chicago or New York, that's when all hell breaks loose. According ka Jean-Pierre morally speaking,

3 (27m 32s):
The, the, the, the busting of migrants, the putting them on flights, it is shameful that that is occurring. And instead of, if the governor really truly wants to deal with this issue, he should talk to the senators in his state.

0 (27m 44s):
Unbelievable. Okay, so just, just to make clear, a lot of people say that Joe Biden hasn't really changed the border of policy. That's not true. So Migration Policy Institute has a good rundown on exactly what Joe Biden has changed in terms of policy since taking office. This is just in the first couple years of his administration of, according to them, from January 20th, 2021 to January 19th, 2023. The first couple years of his administration, the Biden administration took 403 immigration related actions according to migration Policy Institute that's opposed to 470, the entire presidency of Donald Trump. Joe Biden himself changed DHS policy. That's Department of Homeland Securities policy to target only recent border crossers and migrants who present national security threats within the country.

0 (28m 26s):
ICE conducted just 72,100 removals in fiscal year 2022 compared with 233,000 average annual removals under Trump and by the Way 344,000 annual removals under Obama. So Biden is leagues more open on the border than Barack Obama ever was like by far, according to migration Policy Institute, just 28,200 non-citizens in fiscal year 2022 were removed from the interior after initially being arrested by ice. The remainder were border arrivals initially processed by border protection by Border Patrol. In comparison, an average of 81,000 annual interior removals occurred during the Trump administration and 155,000 per year. Under Barack Obama ICE also detained an average of nearly 22,600 people daily in fiscal year 2022.

0 (29m 8s):
That is down from a high of 50,000 in fiscal year 2019. So less than half, they recorded nearly 307,000 total bookends of which 250,000 came from the border. The Biden administration has dramatically increased the use of ICE alternatives to detention programs, which track non-citizens through smartphone apps or ankle monitors while their immigration case proceeds. So that's where you're hearing about the Biden administration giving people phones. That's supposedly why, but why would these people show up for their second court date? They could just disappear into the interior and wait for the next DACA around. Under Biden, the program has been used for migrants paroled in, in at the border. According to the migration Policy Institute, ICE reported about 320,000 people enrolled in alternatives to deportation in fiscal year 2022.

0 (29m 50s):
That is up from 136,000 in fiscal year 2021 and just 23,000 in fiscal year 2014. That's an insane number. I mean. Just to break that down one more time for you, that means that in the year 2022, ICE had 320,000 people enrolled in those alternatives to deportation. That is up a factor of 15 times over that number From 2014, their non detained docket ballooned to 4.7 million cases in fiscal year 2022. And of course, the Biden administration also designated new countries for temporary protected status. That includes Afghanistan, Cameroon, Ethiopia, Myanmar, Ukraine, Venezuela, and they re designated another six countries.

0 (30m 33s):
Haiti, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen, which means that Biden made an additional 712,000 immigrants already in the United States eligible for TPS. You wonder why people think the border is open? It's 'cause the border is open. It's 'cause Joe Biden basically says, if you get here and you claim refugee status, we give you a court date, we release you to the interior and we never see you again. And he's perfectly fine with that. So long as you don't get chipped over to Chicago or over to New York. Where is that coming from? Again, it's coming from a global equity position. That is the ideology that undergirds all of this, all of this. And again, what's amazing about all of this is they're so attached to this particular equity position that they're even willing to destroy their support for Ukraine aid over it. So Senator Chris Van Holland, who is the Senator Democrat from Maryland, he says that it's been really harmful to tie Ukraine aid to border security.

0 (31m 19s):
Why has that been harmful? Why not just pass the thing? Why not just pass it like today?

5 (31m 26s):
The talks have been ongoing with respect to border security, something President Biden has pushed for, for a long time, as well as immigration reform issues. But linking these two issues, providing Ukrainians the help they need against Putin and the border security issues, I fear is going to mean that we don't get the Ukrainians, the the equipment they need when they need it. We need to deal with both the issues, but tying them together in this way I think has been harmful. We are working to try to resolve it.

0 (32m 2s):
No, you're not. if you did, you would just give border security. Everyone knows that they need it by the Way. Again, Russia is attacking Ukraine right now. Ukraine needs the money. I believe that the United States should help provide the support for Ukraine necessary to repel a a second wave Russian invasion. So where exactly is the conflict other than you are so connected to this ideology that you cannot let go of it. No matter what you do, you just refuse to let go of that equity ideology over at the Biden White House. And that's a disaster area for the country. Again, it is rooted in an intersectional view of politics that was built under the Obama administration. That basically America could be broken down between white oppressors, the white oppressive class that had built all the institutions of the country and the marginalized people who would unite to overthrow that particular institution by pe electing people like Barack Obama, the Democratic Party has been enthralled to that dumb idea for quite a while, not recognizing it can't be replicated by anyone who's not named Barack.

0 (32m 54s):
Obama wasn't replicable by Hillary. Clinton really is not replicable by Joe Biden. It's one of the reasons why Joe Biden has a serious problem going into 2024. The Obama Coalition is not going to show up for Joe Biden the way they showed up for Barack Obama in one second. We're gonna get to equity in entertainment content because they continue at Disney to just destroy IEP in the name of equity.

Legacybox (33m 16s):
First, let's talk about your favorite childhood memories. You know, you, you, you think you remember a lot of stuff from your childhood, but the truth is you forget a lot of it. A lot of it is on tape out in your garage right now, but it's on VHS tape. Do you have a VCR? The answer of course is no. Do you have film reels? Well, do you have like a projector in your house? You don't. What you need to do is digitize and keep that stuff forever. This is where Legacybox comes in. Phenomenal service. I've used it for my own parents, I've used it for my family. I've used it for my in-laws. Simply send Legacybox filled with camcorder tapes, film reels and pictures, yet back digital copies that can be easily enjoyed, shared and organized. It's like magic. It's wonderful. Legacybox is the world's largest digitizer. They've helped over 1 million families relive their wedding days, chaotic childhood Christmases, and even road trips to Yellowstone by going to Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro. You can enjoy 50% off when you get started with Legacybox today. Kick off the new year by rescuing your family's most cherished memories that haven't been watched or enjoyed in years. Head on over to Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro and save 50% by today. Send it in. When you're ready, go to Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro. Again, that's Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro. Best service you can get for your family Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro. It's an awesome, awesome gift.

Daily Wire Plus (34m 19s):
Also start 2024 off right. The fight to reshape our culture has never been more crucial. At The Daily Wire, we continue to lead the charge. The 2024 election will be one of the most pivotal in the history of the country. Election Wire is your source of truth, bringing you everything from the campaign trail to the debates and election day in 2024. Your DailyWire Plus membership gives you more of me. Matt Walsh, Michael Moles, Andrew Klavin, Candace Owens, Jordan Peterson, Prager you. That's just at the beginning. We've got the Daily Wires anticipated series Pendragon Cycle, which is gonna be awesome. It's epic. We have animated series starring Adam Corolla and Megan Kelly and Roseanne Barr. We have tons of amazing stuff at DailyWire dot com. Again, that's DailyWire dot com slash subscribe. We need your help to retake the culture, go help us out at DailyWire dot com slash subscribe today.

0 (35m 1s):
Meanwhile, the equity regime, it's not just of course, in the White House, is not just at our academic institutions, is also deeply, deeply embedded. It is in fact the motivating factor behind so much of the entertainment world. So a couple months ago, south Park did an episode in which they talked about the complete destruction of the star Wars universe at the hands of Kathleen Kennedy who's just been awful. I'm a huge star Wars fan, like the original series and even the prequel series, which has grown on me over time, especially in comparison to the garbage that has been churned out by Disney. Now, Disney's done a couple of things that are right, like the stuff that Dave Lon is doing over there. That's good stuff. Star Wars, clone Wars and and Star Wars Rebels is stuff my kids typically like, you know, they, they made a couple of of decent Rogue.

0 (35m 43s):
One is good, but Kathleen Kennedy overall has just destroyed the series, destroyed the series. So South Park was making fun of Kathleen Kennedy for effectively having turned star Wars into a woke universe of nonsense. They had Cartman having a dream in which he replaces Kathleen Kennedy. And here is the take.

6 (36m 1s):
Is there a problem? People,

7 (36m 5s):
No problem at all. Mrs. Kennedy.

8 (36m 7s):
We were just discussing ideas of what to do with the new Prince Eric movie.

6 (36m 10s):
Put a ticket in it. Make game.

8 (36m 14s):
Yes, Ms. Kennedy, some of the execs are just expressing that maybe

7 (36m 18s):
Well, well, that maybe we should go a different route than we did with Indiana Jones.

6 (36m 22s):
Indiana Jones put a chicken in and make a little gay.

0 (36m 28s):
Well that, that in fact is Kathleen Kennedy's strategy apparently. So Star Wars, again, one of the great ips in all of human history. I mean it's a tremendous piece of ip. It's like tens of billions of dollars worth of IP. And they've now decided to turn over the universe to a person named Charmine obeyed Chinoy. So who exactly is this person? Well, she's mostly famous for having made a couple of nonfiction documentaries that won Oscars about feminism and anti-feminism in Pakistan, which that's fine, but what does that, what does that have to do with star Wars? What, what makes you think that you can transition from making a terrific documentary about say, honor killings in Pakistan to now you are in charge of the star Wars universe.

0 (37m 13s):
Like where is that? How, how does that happen? Well, she then was a director, one of the directors on Miss Marvel, the 2022 series from Disney Plus that literally no one watched and that no one wanted to watch and that no one cared about because it looked not good. And they've decided to put her in charge of the next star Wars movie, which we'll focus in on. Ray, you remember Ray, or maybe you don't. She's the star of the last star Wars trilogy in which they killed off all the characters you love in favor of characters that no one gave any hoots about whatsoever. No one has said the name Po Dameron in years. 'cause no one cares. No one cares about Finn and barely anyone caress about Ray.

0 (37m 53s):
So they got rid of all your old favorites, right? They killed off Han Uselessly and Stupidly, and then they killed off Luke Uselessly and Stupidly, and then they killed off Leia. Absolutely Uselessly and stupidly. And then they added beloved characters like Rose, an awful character who annoyed everyone so much so that they literally wrote her outta the third movie. The Rise of Skywalker, the failure of Kathleen Kennedy's trilogy has been so dramatic that there's been like a whole new revisionist history set up where Last Jedi is a good movie when everyone knows that Last Jedi is absolute trash from, from Ryan Johnson. Everyone knows that just an absolute scrap heap of garbage is the, is the last trail of agenda, Kathleen Kennedy. So instead of shifting focus, and again, why don't you just hand the next movie to Dave Fallon.

0 (38m 36s):
Dave Fallon actually likes the series. Dave Fallon actually, you know, likes the characters. Dave Fallon actually understands what he's doing in the Star Wars universe and what the universe is all about. Instead, Kathleen Kennedy has hired this person who also happens to be not just a documentary filmmaker about, about the oppression of women in Pakistan. Also, she was the first artist to co-chair the World Economic Forum in 2017. Well, I mean those seem like great qualifications for a piece of high octane adventure, fantasy sci-fi entertainment. Well, so they asked her about the new movie that starring Ray apparently 15 years after the end of Rise of Skywalker.

0 (39m 16s):
And here's what she had to say.

9 (39m 19s):
So the first woman and the first person of color to direct a star Wars film, it's set to be released in 2026. You can say that the force is strong with this one. Here's Char Benoy.

11 (39m 35s):
You know, I am very thrilled about the project because I think what we are about to create is something very special. And we're in 2024 now, and I think it's about time that we had a woman come forward to shape the story in a galaxy far, far away.

0 (39m 54s):
You had a woman who shaped all the stories in the galaxy, far, far away. Her name is Kathleen Kennedy, and she sucks. She's awful, she's garbage at her job and in any fair universe, she would've been fired. But she's un fireable because she's a woman Also. The minute someone talks about historic IP and the first thing they say is, well, we're in 2024 now, you know, the next thing outta their mouth is going to be the stupidest crap you've ever heard in your entire life, right? Whether it's Rachel Ziegler talking about something, it's 2024 now we don't need a woman waiting to be saved by a man. It's a feminist diet by the Way DailyWire. Yes. We here at DailyWire will take full credit for Disney having to completely reshoot Snow White because we pointed out that not only that Rachel Seigler was saying this stuff, but then we actually committed to making a rival Snow White film. So an attempt to head us off a tiny company by Disney's Lights, Disney had to reshoot the entire film.

0 (40m 38s):
Well, they're gonna have to reshoot the entire star Wars universe probably because again, I don't know how you blow IP this bad, but again, equity is the only thing that matters. Equity, equity, equity. We need a woman directing. How about you just make a good star Wars film? You haven't done it for like a decade. The last decent star Wars film was Rogue One. When is it like, what do you guys do for a living? And the answer is, they please themselves. They please themselves on the stockholder dime. That's what they do because they, they, they like stakeholder capitalism. The World Economic Forum preaches it. After all, it's everyone. The world can be changed by entertainment. And this is why you hire directors who have no history of directing anything good in the, in the sphere.

0 (41m 19s):
And then decide that the way that you are going to do this is, is by, is by putting them in charge of the single most lucrative IP in probably all of human history. So slow clap for Kathleen Kennedy. She's done it. Once again, put a chicken in her maker gay. That's the, that's that's the way this all works. And meanwhile, in actually important world news, the conflict in the Middle East continues the, the Israelis killed a Hamas deputy leader named Sal Uri. He was killed in alleged Israeli strike in Beirut. So anybody who thinks that there's no coordination between Hezbollah and Hamas, obviously you're wrong. Hamas and Hezbollah work hand in glove with one another. if you look at a map of this region, what you'll see is that Hamas is located in the Gaza Strip, which is in the southwestern part of Israel.

0 (41m 59s):
It's like the southwestern corner. And then Hezbollah is located in Israel's north, about 200,000 missiles appointed at Israel. About 50,000 of 'em are smart weapons, capable of actual targeting technology, much more sophisticated, much more dangerous than Kamas to Israel. Hezbollah has been basically prodding Israel at the northern border. They've killed a bunch of people at the northern border of many of the Hezbollah terrorists have been killed at the northern border. Israel has evacuated for literally months at this point, some 30 to 40,000 of its own people away from that northern border, an expectation of a possible Hezbollah attack. So Hezbollah was apparently housing some of the Hamas leadership according to the times of Israel. Hamas' deputy leader abroad named Sal Alri wanted for years by Israel and seen as the group's primary orchestrator of West Bank terrorism was killed Tuesday evening in Israeli strike in the Beirut suburb of D.

0 (42m 45s):
According to officials with Hamas and the Lebanese terrorist group, Hezbollah Israeli officials declined to comment unnamed US officials told the New York Times and Washington Post that Israel was responsible. Now it's say targeted strike zero civilians were killed in this particular targeted strike based in Lebanon. Aru was one of the founders of Hamas' military wing deputy head of the Terror Group's political bureau and considered the defacto leader of Hamas' military wing in the West Bank, which by the Way not only threatens Israel, but also threatens the wanted and much lied about Palestinian authority, which is in fact also a terrorist group, just not quite as crazy a terrorist group as Hamas. Hezbollah, for its part is now vowing revenge for the Hamas chief being killed in Beirut, which again is weird.

0 (43m 25s):
Hamas is a different and distinct terrorist group from Hezbollah. Hezbollah is remarking that it wants revenge on Israel having killed a Hamas terrorist, the possibility of Hamas going hot with Israel, obviously dramatically higher than it was. And meanwhile, the West is saying to Israel, don't you gotta avoid deescalation, particularly in Lebanon. Okay, well here is a good way of doing that. What if the West just said to the Lebanese government, which is in fact distinct from, but heavily influenced by Hezbollah, move Hezbollah off the border, end of story, move them off the border. They're, they're in violation of un un resolution by the Way. For those of you who pretend to care about the United Nations, there is a un resolution that prevents Hezbollah from militarizing the northern border of Israel. They've militarized the border, so they're in violation of international law if that's a thing that you care about or pretend to care about.

0 (44m 8s):
And yet, the international communities like Israel really should use restraint with this terrorist group that is threatening to eviscerate not only thousands of Israel, probably tens of thousands of Israelis. On day one, French president Emmanuel Macron has called on Israel to avoid escalation, particularly in Lebanon. Following that strike, Macron said, and he was speaking by the Way, not to Benjamin Netanyahu, the prime minister, but to war cabinet member Benny Gonz, who started the Prime Minister in waiting. He said, it's essential to avoid any escalatory attitude, particularly in Lebanon. Oh, an escalatory attitude may, maybe someone should say that to Hezbollah at some point that might be worthwhile. Meanwhile, morons like Bernie Sanders continue to call for an end to aid packages to Israel. Even as Israel is engaged in existential fight against Hamas terrorists who murdered 1200 people and took another 240 captive, there are still dozens of hostages being held in Gaza.

0 (44m 58s):
Hamas could end this war literally on a moment's notice. All they have to do is surrender. And probably they'd be allowed to go into exile, surrender, go into exile, and give up the hostages Wars over literally tomorrow. They won't do that. Instead they're hijacking humanitarian aid. So Bernie Sanders supposed, supposed pro-Israel friend on the left, who seriously is not, he says, let me be clear, no more US funding for Netanyahu's illegal, immoral, brutal, and grossly disproportionate war against the Palestinian people. Again, he's using the word disproportionate incorrectly here. Proportionate has nothing to do with the number of people killed on your side versus the number of people killed on the other side. The proportion is whether you are killing the minimal number of people necessary to achieve your military objective. And the answer for Israel is yes, because Kamas has embedded 30 to 40,000 terrorists in the middle of civilian populations and continue to fire rockets on Israel even now, months later.

0 (45m 48s):
Also, I love that he says that it's Netanyahu's war, it's a unity government war cabinet. If Netanyahu were ousted tomorrow, the war cabinet might be more right wing Netanyahu's, actually an incrementalist. The big critique in Israel right now against Netanyahu is actually from the right people saying that Netanyahu isn't doing enough. Gallant Yai, who's the defense minister in Israel, wanted Netanyahu to swivel up north and hit Hezbollah first, and Netanyahu turned him down. Netanyahu is actually the moderate force in the war cabinet by many of the reports. But Bernie wants, wants no aid to Israel. Of course, that that, that, that was perfectly predictable in the name of global equity naturally. So you know, the usual from Bernie Sanders and company.

0 (46m 28s):
Meanwhile, it is amazing how times change over in Israel. It's worth noting that the Supreme Court of Israel, which is in fact a tyrannical body, they literally appoint their own successors, the Supreme Court over in Israel. And there are no limits as to what they declare their own discretion to be. They struck down a law that was passed by the Knesset, the Israeli parliament. It was passed by a fairly narrow margin in the last Knesset session before the war. And it basically said that the Supreme Court of Israel could not simply on quote unquote reasonableness grounds strike down rulings from the executive or from the legislative branch. They couldn't simply just say, we don't like what you did. So we're striking it down. The Supreme Court then overruled that law on the grounds that it violated basic law. So they, they, they're like, there's no legal precedent for anything like what the Supreme Court is doing, but it just goes to show you, that's been a side show in Israel.

0 (47m 10s):
No one cares at this point. Because as always, and this is something we should remember here in the United States, as always, the social cohesion of a, of a nation, it's significantly more important than the actual governmental workings of the nation, a dysfunctional government, but high levels of social cohesion and community that can continue to work, a dysfunctional government and a dysfunctional community, that is almost impossible to work. And that's what the United States is facing increasingly right now, which is why it's important to mention that the United States has just crossed $32 trillion in national debt, which is an insane amount of money that has now been spent.

0 (47m 51s):
According to Fox Business, the national debt hit 34 trillion. Of course, four decades ago, the national debt was about 907 billion. So we have blown out the spending. That has all been a bandaid, an attempt to manufacture social cohesion through the power of government. It has been a failure on every score. It has not made America better off. It has not increase social cohesion. It's exacerbated divisions rather than papering them over and by the Way, that doesn't include unfunded liabilities. You include the unfunded liabilities of social, social security, Medicare, Medicaid, and all the rest. You're talking about probably a hundred trillion dollars of national debt here in the United States, all of which is a bill that will eventually come do. Alrighty, coming up, we'll get into more on the 2024 election and Bob Menendez, Senator from New Jersey hit with another corruption charge.

0 (48m 35s):
If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months. Free annual annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

Jeremy's (48m 44s):
We are happy to announce a new product. Jeremy's Razors for Women Ladies can get a great smooth shave and enjoy knowing that your hard-earned money is going towards a company that celebrates and supports women being women. Get yours today at jeremy's Razors dot com.