0 (0s):
Joe Biden builds miles of wall along the southern border, even as he attempts to deny it will make any difference at all. chaos continues among Republicans, seeking a new speaker and the FBI launches a new effort to target Trump followers. I'm Bench Bureau. This is the Bench Bureau show.

ExpressVPN (18s):
The Bench Bureau Show is sponsored by Express VPN. Privacy is a right, not a privilege to defend your rights at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (24s):
So Department of Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas on Wednesday waived 26 different federal laws that actually allowed him to build border wall in South Texas. Apparently among the 26 laws, the DHS waived according to National Review. That includes the Clean Air Act, safe Drinking Water Act, and Endangered Species Act. The projects will be funded by Congressional Appropriations package from fiscal year 2019. It's not gonna be tons of wall, but it is some wall. It's like 20 miles of wall along the border in Star County, Texas. That's an area experiencing high illegal entry. The Biden administration has acknowledged that this was necessary. They put forward a statement saying as much, suggesting that this is the way that this was going to go. That basically we need the wall. If we don't have the wall, it's gonna be very difficult for us to secure the border.

0 (1m 5s):
This of course, creates a major conundrum because Joe Biden suggested during the 2020 race that walls are bad, they're ineffective, they're useless. And in fact, the idea of the Trump wall was incredibly bad racist. Terrible is why you had Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez during the Trump administration jetting on down to the southern border to hang around empty parking lots and fake cry into the camera over over offense. This is why you had the entire media shrieking and crying about the idea of Donald Trump building more border wall. This is why just a few weeks ago, you had judges who were stepping in to prevent the Governor of Texas, Greg Abbott, from putting buoys in the middle of the Rio ground to prevent people from illegally attempting to cross that border.

0 (1m 45s):
Well, now they have flipped. Now they have flipped again. It, it's not all that long ago they were saying all this sort of stuff as, as of 2021 Kain Jean Pire was saying on behalf of this administration that walls don't work.

3 (1m 56s):
He also indicated it was his view that that certain sections of the border wall should be finished. Does the president agree?

4 (2m 2s):
Well, as, as you know, we have said that I I, I have to look at the, the comments. I have not seen them, so I wanna make sure I I read it within context. But we have talked about the border wall here in, in general as, as a way that it's been used in, in a, to, to, you know, to to close the border. And we feel that it is a policy that doesn't work. And it's not just us. You know, experts has said that the border wall is not, is not an effective policy.

0 (2m 33s):
That was the administration just a couple of years ago. So, what changed? Well, it turns out millions of people have crossed the southern border under Joe Biden and they're all going up to northern cities, blue Cities, New York, Chicago. And it turns out that people in those blue cities don't like it very much. You've got governors like Kathy Hoko in New York, calling out the Biden administration. You have the governor of Illinois, JB Pritzker, and the mayor Brandon Johnson of Chicago calling for Joe Biden to fix this thing here they were just a couple of days ago.

5 (2m 59s):
We have to have better coordination with every single level of government, and that includes the state of Texas. There

6 (3m 5s):
Are other things the federal government can do other than sending us money that they haven't yet done. In

7 (3m 10s):
A letter to President Biden asking for more help, governor Pritzker says the crisis is overwhelming the state and the city's ability to provide aid.

0 (3m 20s):
Yeah, well all of this has driven the Biden administration into some dose of reality, or at least it did briefly. There's a brief moment in time just a couple of days ago when it appeared that the Biden administration might be shocked into reality, maybe need to stop the overwhelming flow of illegal immigrants at the border. Mayorca said an official filing in the federal register, this is just a couple of days ago, quote, there is presently an acute and immediate need to construct physical barriers and roads in the vicinity of the border of the United States in order to prevent unlawful entries into the United States in the project areas. In order to ensure the expeditious construction of the barriers and roads in the project areas. I have determined that it is necessary exercise. The authority vested in me by Section 1 0 2 C of the I I R I R A. Hey. So he waived regulations in order to make this sort of thing happen, but then wokeness snapped back into place like a mousetrap.

0 (4m 5s):
There was no way the Biden administration was gonna be able to flip this dramatically after claiming that Donald Trump was an evil human rights violator for attempting to build border wall. And so yesterday Joe Biden, the defunct president of the United States, suggested that actually the border wall won't work, which raises the question as to why then they are building it. But he says, guys, guys, it's, it's still not gonna work. I I didn't change my mind. It's still not gonna work. We're just building it 'cause we have to build it, which is weird since you had to waive 26 regulations in order to build it here Was Joe Biden yesterday,

8 (4m 35s):
Do you believe the border wall works?

9 (4m 37s):
No.

0 (4m 39s):
So then why are you doing it? So why are you doing it? The answer is that he's doing it because he also knows that the consequences of not doing it are really bad politically, but he still has to please his left wing base. He has created a situation in which he is caught between rock and a hard place. This is a catch 22 for him. And the same way the crime policy is a catch 22, if crime goes outta control, it looks really bad for his administration. If he adds more cops to the streets, it also looks really bad for his administration. Left-wing policy is a failure when you pursue it to its logical conclusion, which is an open border. In this particular case, people don't like it very much. And then you have to backtrack and then people yell at you for backtracking, and this is what Joe Biden doesn't want. So, what exactly is Joe Biden's excuse for having spent the money to, you know, actually build wall? He says the money was appropriated so he has to spend it.

0 (5m 20s):
Which again is weird from a president of the United States who has unilaterally declared himself the ability to relieve student loan debt to the tune of hundreds of billions of dollars, for example. But when it comes to money allocated for border wall funding, suddenly like right now, he discovered that it actually has to spend money that was appropriated in 2019 Strange

9 (5m 40s):
Border wall. The money was appropriated for the border wall. I tried to get them to reappropriate to redirect that money They didn, they wouldn't. And in the meantime, there's nothing under the law other than they have to use the money for what was appropriate. I can't stop that.

0 (5m 54s):
Well, I mean, you could theoretically, you could say we couldn't waive the regulations. Sorry. Right? That'd be the easy, easy way to do it. They literally had to waive regulations in order to make this happen so they could have made the case. Secretary Mayorca easily could have made the case. Guys, I wanted to spend the money But the regulations prevent me from spending the money because obviously I'd be in violation of law if I did spend the money. He's not doing that. He's building the wall. So they wanna have it both ways. Again, they wanna build the wall, claim the wall does nothing. So they can simultaneously claim they're doing something to stop the border flow and also claim to all of their left wing buddies that actually they still agree with themselves when they took the moronic position that walls do nothing, which of course is silly. Of course, walls do something. You wouldn't have a giant fence around the White House if walls did nothing. And this, it's, it's, it's an argument that's beneath contempt that walls do nothing.

0 (6m 35s):
Of course, walls do something they have for all of human history. So stupid. You'll get to more on this in just one second.

Pure Talk (6m 40s):
First, you know, a company is looking out for you when they actually upgrade your service and don't charge you for it. This is great news for new and current Pure Talk customers. Pure Talk just added data to every plan. Plus every plan now includes a mobile hotspot with no price increase whatsoever. If you considered Pure Talk before, but you haven't made the switch, take a look again for just 20 bucks a month, you'll get unlimited talk text and now 50% more five G data plus their new mobile hotspot. This is why I love Pure Talk there, veteran owned, they only hired the best customer service team located right here in the United States of America. Pure Talk families are saving almost a thousand dollars a year while enjoying the most amenable five G network in America. Remember, you vote with how you spend your cash, so stop supporting those woke wireless companies that actually hate your guts. When you go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro, you'll save an additional 50% off your very first month because you know they actually don't hate you, they actually value you. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Again, Pure Talk is wireless for Americans. Buy Americans head on over to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro, save an additional 50% off your very first month. Again, I use Pure Talk for all of my phone calls. You should do the same Great Tower Network and you're saving money and the company doesn't hate you. That is a win-win all around Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro wireless for Americans by Americans.

0 (7m 45s):
Okay, so Alejandro Mayorkas was then caught off guard by the fact that his own administration had undercut him. So originally he said, we need the wall because you know, we have a big problem on the border. Then because Joe Biden decided that he was going to maintain the position that they don't need the wall and walls are bad, he had to walk it back. So here was Mayorca yesterday, walking it back

10 (8m 2s):
From day one. This administration has made clear that a border wall is not the answer that remains our position. And our position has never wavered The language in the Federal register notice is being taken out of context and it does not signify any change in policy whatsoever.

0 (8m 24s):
Oh, it's missing context. Is it? You know, the part where you explicitly said that there's an immediate need to build border wall. This follows hard on Mayorkas claiming that it wasn't actually border wall, it was actually just construction along the border. What were they building? Like a castle. What a miniature golf course. Like what, what exactly is it was, what would you call the thing that you are building? That is a wall. It it's all idiot. And they're assuming you're morons. M cor shaere again, wildly untalented. Press secretary. So she was asked, you know what, why is it that you wanna break US law in order to put up the wall and then claim that the wall doesn't, doesn't do anything? And she has no answer for this, obviously. 'cause there is no answer. 'cause it's, it's really dumb,

11 (9m 5s):
A wall constructed in my administration. So something changed. What? You want us to

4 (9m 9s):
Break the law? Is that what you want? You want us to not comply with the law? I'm not, I I'm asking but you want, but you want us to not comply with the law. You want us to not be in administrations that followed the rule of law. You

11 (9m 20s):
Guys do this all the time. The student loans, the student loan forgiveness program. You went to court to fight for that. If this is such a problem building 20 miles of wall, why not just go to court?

4 (9m 31s):
We went to Congress, the Congress appropriates the funding. Why not Congress? Why Congress appropriates the funding. We ask them to not use that funding for that particular purpose. They denied it and now we're complying with the law.

11 (9m 46s):
If you have to build a border wall but you don't think that it's gonna work, then once it's done, are you just gonna tear it down?

4 (9m 52s):
I'm not getting into hypotheticals from here, I'm just telling you what I can tell you from here. The facts are that D H Ss is complying with the law. This is from fiscal year. This was under fiscal year 2019 under Republican leadership and D H SS is required to do this. The president asked multiple times of Congress to Reappropriate. They did not, and we're not complying by the law. Thanks everybody

0 (10m 16s):
So much. Legal compliance from this administration. I mean, if there's one thing we know about this administration, they love complying with the separation of powers in which Congress passes a law and the president signs it and the president abides by that legislation. That is something this administration absolutely adores. They would never do anything unilaterally like say, I don't know, tell OSHA to cram down a vax mandate on 80 million Americans. They would never do anything like that. After all, the power of the legislature controls what OSHA can and cannot do. And that's not in the enabling legislation. So obviously they would follow the law. I mean, they would never try to twist the law to relieve hundreds of billions of dollars of student loan debt. Just get rid of it. I mean, they, they would follow the law clearly and just, just like they are right here, there's an appropriation to build a wall. And so they're just following the law by building the wall, even if they think it's useless, because that's just what sticklers these people are for the law or they're completely full of crap.

0 (11m 3s):
They're completely full of crap. We all know that they're full of crap. But this is the problem. When you take positions that are counter logic and decency, and then the effects of those, those policies come to fruition, you have to somehow mitigate against your own policies. The reason this is happening is very obvious. You've got people in New York and people in Chicago and people in California and people all over the left wing, the big cities, big blue cities who are complaining about Joe Biden's illegal immigration problem. And there is a reason, by the way, that Joe Biden is doing this. And that is because his poll numbers absolutely stink. His poll numbers on immigration are not, they're not just underwater, they're wildly underwater. I mean, insanely underwater. Joe Biden's approval numbers on immigration like 20%.

0 (11m 44s):
He has to do something, but at the same time, he doesn't wanna tick off that left wing base. And what's amazing to me is that he's so attached to that left wing base. Why are they gonna go vote for Donald Trump? Obviously not. Are they gonna stay home if Trump is on the ballot? Obviously not. But he feels the necessity he really does to cater to that activist space. And who is that activist base? It's not black people in America's major cities who are overwhelmingly in favor of less illegal migration. It's even Latinos in America who are overwhelmingly in favor of less illegal migration. It is woke white liberals living in upper class suburbs who never have to deal with the consequences. And the minute you ship 'em to Martha's Vineyards, then, then all of a sudden they're starting to freak out and, and, and complain. But until then, they're very happy to put their lawn signs.

0 (12m 24s):
The virtue signaling lawn signs, man, the the Democratic Party policy is a disaster area. And, and Republicans could point that out if they weren't in the middle of a Speakership battle, which they declared on themselves. Because that, that is definitely the best way to fight a war, is if you're in the middle of a, of a, of a battle, a political battle with the other side. The best thing to do is immediately go into an interna war with your own side. It it always works out beautifully. We'll get to that in just one second.

Helix (12m 48s):
First, are you tired of tossing and turning all night? Desperately searching for that elusive comfort zone with Helix? You can say goodbye to sleepless nights and hello to the Perfect mattress designed just for you Gotta tell you, I just done a very, very long FR flight from abroad. I cannot wait to get on my Helix sleep mattress this evening. The Helix Elite Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for specific sleep positions and firmness preferences. I've had my Helix sleep mattress for at least seven, eight years at this point. It is durable, it is great. It was tailored just for me. It is firm but breathable, which is precisely what I need. Helix has a sleep quiz that matches your body type and sleep preferences to the perfect mattress because why would you buy a mattress made for somebody else? Go to Helix sleep.com/men, take their two minute sleep quiz, find that perfect mattress for your body and sleep type. Your mattress will come right to your door, shipped for free. Plus Helix has a 10 year warranty. You can try it out for a hundred nights risk free. They'll even pick it up for you if you don't love it, but you will. Helix has over 12,005 star reviews their financing options. Flexible payment plans make it to a great night's sleep is never a far away. Helix is offering 20% off all mattress orders plus two free pillows for Mulu. My listeners go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. It's their best offer, yet it's not gonna last for long with Helix. Better sleep starts right now.

0 (13m 51s):
Okay, so meanwhile, while Democrats are declaring war on themselves over whether to build a border wall or not, the the Republicans are declaring war on themselves with regard to this Speakership battle. In a fascinating new twist to the Speakership battle, apparently the Republicans are now going to hold a Speakership debate apparently televised, which I, okay, alright, here's my objection to this. My only objection, I'm all for transparency, but who Republicans elect in a closed caucus to lead their caucus really should not be a, a matter of public scrutiny nearly as much as you know you voting for your local Congress person. The reason I say this is because how the sausage gets made is very different than how people tell you the sausage gets made on talk radio, okay, on talk radio.

0 (14m 36s):
Look, look what I do for a living. I'm gonna give you the purest, most conservative perspective because that's what I get to do. I mean, I'm, I'm lucky I don't have to make the sausage, but behind the closed doors, obviously there's wheeling and dealing trades get made. But, the problem is that incentive structure is completely skewed. You can't actually get the deal done. You can't elect a Speaker unless there are some deals that are getting made behind closed doors. And this is, for example, is one of the problems with the Republican fight against earmarks. So for years and years and years, Republicans have said quite correctly on principle earmarks are really bad. They are, they're really bad. Earmarks are the system whereby there's a bill it's coming through and I attach a rider for my district and I say, I'm only going to vote in favor of this bill if you build the Ben Shapiro post office in my district. And it's really bad because if everybody does that, you end up spending a lot of money.

0 (15m 18s):
The problem is if nobody does that, you don't pass any bills and you end up with a giant omnibus package that only gets support because it's a giant crap sandwich anyway, usually a larger crap sandwich then would've been attained with a few simple earmarks. So again, the sausage making process is really ugly televising all of that. And that's, that's a great way of prolonging the Speaker chaos, I suppose because you're gonna end up with a, a segment that is very pro Jim Jordan. You're gonna end up with a segment that is very pro Kevin Hearn, for example, you'll, this is what's going to happen because it's not as though any one of these candidates is completely dominant. So the three big candidates who have been mentioned at this point are Steve Scalise, Jim Jordan and Republican Study committee chair Kevin Hearn of Oklahoma.

0 (15m 58s):
Apparently according to Punchbowl News, Fox News', Brett Bayer is gonna host a closed debate and discussion between the GOP candidates for Speaker on Monday night, according to a source involved with the planning. And then later it came out apparently that they're gonna televise that which I mean it, it's gonna be ver if you are running for Speaker of the House now you're basically kind of running for president, right? Not, not formally, but you're getting in front of the American people and the Republican base and showing who has most Ty to conservative principles. The problem is that you can show that fealty But, the system constrains you from actually achieving those goals. You make the biggest promise, you can promise everything to everybody two minutes from now. Everybody's gonna be real disappointed when we hit the end of the continuing resolution and somebody cuts a deal, which is exactly what's going to happen. As we all know anyway, Republicans are gonna host that candidate forum Tuesday night and the closed party election on Wednesday.

0 (16m 44s):
There is no timeline for electing a Speaker on the house floor. This thing is probably gonna continue for a number of days. Donald Trump for his part. He, after originally recommending Kevin McCarthy for the pose, McCarthy was very pro-Trump. And then doing nothing to stop Kevin McCarthy from falling Donald Trump then apparently started sharing posts on truth social pitching himself as the Speaker and calling Kevin McCarthy a traitor, which is as always, no one is more loyal than president. The most loyal. So in, in any case, Donald Trump is now endorsing Jim Jordan for Speaker, which is fine. I I really like Jim Jordan. I think he's terrific. The head of the House of Oversight Committee, again, I know I am wants this job, job. It's a terrible job. But Jim Jordan is an excellent candidate.

0 (17m 25s):
He's one of the founders of the House Freedom Caucus. He's extremely conservative across the board and as far as Trump goes, he's a big Trump backer. Now the problem is, of course, we're also in the middle of an open primary inside the Republican party. While Trump is way in front in that primary, he still represents about half of the Republican party and the other half of the Republican party is split among a myriad of candidates. So Trump's endorsement is not sure to guarantee that somehow Jordan becomes the guy, especially because there's a whole wing of moderates in the party who may not be in love with Jim Jordan. Kevin McCarthy people ripped him for not having centralizing principles. And to a certain extent, there's some truth to that because he's a consummate politician and you kind of have to be in order to be Speaker of the House and broker some sort of agreement between all these disparate groups.

0 (18m 8s):
You can't really be a guy who has sort of hard and fast principles unless you're gonna be a dictator. Like New Gingrich was very early on when he was Speaker of the House and then he ended up being fenestrated anyway after a certain point. Being an idealist and being Speaker of the House are usually not things that go together. This is why Mitch McConnell's a very effective Senate majority leader, but not the most ideological politician. Usually these two things are in conflict. If you wanna be particularly effective as a legislature, as a legislator, usually that means not being a purist In any case, Jim Jordan is more of a purist than a lot of people in moderate districts in New York maybe who might not love Jim Jordan. Steve Scalise is considered, again, sort of the the party favorite in the sense that he's not coming in from the outside. He was a second in command to Kevin McCarthy.

0 (18m 49s):
There are health concerns about Steve Scalise. There's now been some talk, believe it or not, about Patrick McHenry. Possibly not because Patrick McHenry actually has a lot of backing, but because he's the Speaker Pro, so he's sort of just sitting there already in order for any sort of Speakership vote to happen, the big thing that's gonna have to happen is they're gonna have to change the motion to vacate rule. The Motion to Vacate rule, which is a concession made by Kevin McCarthy to the Matt Gaetz wing of the party, was that he would allow anyone, anyone, like a single person to bring a motion to vacate the chair if they didn't like what he was doing. And that basically set the stage for him being ousted at any point because he has a very, very narrow house majority. All it took was basically five Republicans voting against him and he would lose his Speakership even if the other 97% of the caucus was in favor of Kevin McCarthy.

0 (19m 34s):
And in fact, that's what happened. So in order for any new Speaker to be elected and then have any power at all, that motion to vacate is gonna have to be changed. And according to Punch Bowl, that's exactly what's happening. 45 House Republicans, including several power players, have written a letter to the conference effectively demanding changes to the motion to vacate rule that cost McCarthy his job. A few members who signed this letter said they're not willing to endorse anybody for Speaker until the motion of vacate is overhauled. Those names include Representative, Stephanie Beis, Oklahoma, dusty Johnson of South Dakota, Representative, Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, Garrett Graves of Louisiana Foreign Affairs Committee Chair Mike McCall of Texas and Ways and Means Committee Chair Jason Smith of Missouri. Again, that's a big faction. It's 45 people. There's even some talk that McCarthy might get a second go round here, although I think that that is very unlikely at this point.

0 (20m 17s):
Meanwhile, the question is whether any of these people are gonna be able to raise a lot of money. Steve Scalise has, he's raised about $170 million to support various Republicans over the last decade. Scalise raised more in the last cycle, 53 million than Jordan raised over the last decade, 38 million. So that's gonna be a major concern. Again, being Speaker of the House is not the same as being most ideologically Pure. Usually it's the guy who cut deals and get, get people elected. But this is a, a pretty significant mess. We'll get into more of that mess in just one second.

Blinds.com (20m 44s):
First, look at the way that light is streaming into your home right now. When I bought my home in Florida, one of the things that mattered most to me was how the light came into the home. Because honestly, if it's too dark in my house, I can't stand it. And that meant I took a look at the window coverings and then I went to blinds.com and I got better window coverings because that makes a huge difference. You should check out blinds.com as well and make a huge difference in your home or office. And our Florida studio. You use blinds.com as well. blinds.com is the number one online retailer of custom window coverings. With over 40,005 star reviews, you can measure and install it yourself or have blinds.com. Take care of it with local professionals. There's no showroom, no retail markets, and no matter how many you order, installation is just one low cost. If you don't have an eye for design blinds.com, experts are always available to help choose the style and color that's right for you. Everything they sell is covered by their perfect fit and 100% satisfaction guarantee with hundreds of styles and colors to choose from. Blinds.com is sure to have the perfect treatment for your Windows Shop blinds dot com's primetime kickoff event. It's happening right now. Save up to 50% SITEWIDE Plus at doorbusters. It's one of their biggest sales of the year. Get up to 50% off@blinds.com. When you check out online, don't forget to tell them you heard about blinds.com from The Ben Shapiro Show rules and restrictions may apply.

0 (21m 48s):
Okay, so as you've been saying, in order for any Speaker to be able to run the house, he's gonna have to have some level of authority over the members of his own caucus, is what Representative Johnson was saying. Dusty Johnson in South Dakota. He's saying, you know, we got a bunch of foundational problems here and if we don't fix those before a new Speaker is named, they're just gonna continue.

12 (22m 5s):
Let me just lay it out there, cut to the chase. Who are you with in the Speaker battle?

13 (22m 10s):
Oh, I'm not with anybody yet. I think that we've got a lot of questions we need these candidates to answer in part. 'cause if we don't change the foundational problems within our conference, it's just gonna be the same stupid clown car with a different driver.

0 (22m 27s):
I mean, and that is correct. If, if these rules happen to not grant the, the Speaker enough power to actually keep his caucus in line, they're not getting anything done. Obviously there have to be consequences for stepping out of line. It it, it's very funny to me. A lot of people are very happy about Kevin McCarthy getting ousted are a lot of the same people who are very upset at, at rogues like John McCain in the, in the United States. Senate, I agree with them about John McCain But. the whole point is you can't actually pass anything unless you keep your majority in line. And so if you remove all the consequences that are available to keep people in line, they will not stay in line. You'll have a collective action problem. Representative Max Miller Republican of Ohio, he says, listen, if we keep fighting each other here, I'm not hopeful we're gonna even gonna be able to keep the majority.

14 (23m 7s):
I'm gonna stand here and tell you by the actions that have taken place this week. I'm not hopeful to keep the majority. I'm not hopeful to win back to Senate. You know, I spoke to President Trump three times yesterday and I explained to him that there could be a coalition government that would happen and throughout that process, you know what we would lose in the House of Representatives. What did Trump say when you told him all this stuff? He's incredibly upset. This is where I love to get to my point, Manu about Matt Gaetz using the MAGA cloak to go ahead and to post content on Twitter with no context to make it seem as if he has President Trump's support. And he paints it in the most broad strokes possible. That's why he's so good at what he does is because he's a BSS artist.

0 (23m 47s):
Okay? So Matt Gaetz is trying to fight back again that perception by doing something that I will say is, is clever. So he is saying, okay, I'm gonna negotiate on the motion to vacate. He says, my GOP colleagues wanna raise the threshold on the motion to vacate. Here's a question for them. If we enact the reforms laid out by Representative Brona, who's a Democrat from California, nice guy, and I've interviewed ROE before, how high would you like the M T V threshold to be? I'll basically give you whatever you want for this stuff. What, what, what exactly is that stuff? A ban on congressional stock trading, which makes sense to me. Put everything into, into a blind trust, make some sort of consequence. You can't involve yourself in it. 12 year term limit for Congress and a ban on political donations from lobbyists or pacs. Now we know that this is going nowhere, okay? Like those last two things are going nowhere.

0 (24m 28s):
And the reason those are going nowhere is 'cause there are a bunch of people sitting in Congress right now who are beyond the 12 year term limit. You're gonna open up a bunch of safe districts for Republicans to challenge. So there's that. As far as the ban on political donations from lobbyists or pacs, I'm just wondering if Republicans enact that and Democrats do not, how is that going to work out? So he's saying he's gonna change the, the motion to vacate rules if there's a ban on political donations from lobbyists or pacs for whom? For just Republicans, because that seems like shooting yourself directly in the face. Again, I'm, I'm perfectly willing to hear Matt Gaetz's list of demands, but if the idea is that all lobbyists and PAC donations go away by, by the way, all APAC donation is that that is like a group of people who get together and they put together a political actions on committee and then they, and they spend money on behalf of a candidate.

0 (25m 12s):
If Republicans take that off the table and then they let Democrats do it, how exactly is that advantageous for Republicans attempting to win? I just like lobbyists is not as much as the next guy, but But the notion that Democrats are gonna continue doing this and Republicans are gonna stop doing this, it puts you in an inherent disadvantage electorally like are Democrats gonna vote to do this overall? And how exactly would that tie into Republican attempts to get a Speaker to, to push that? Like what Matt Gaetz has already shown is that Republicans can push stuff and if Democrats don't go along with it, Matt Gaetz blames the Republicans anyway. He did this with regard to the border security. He literally got up the other day and he is like, you guys say that you passed a harsh border security regimen. Well, I didn't see that become law, right? 'cause there's a Democratic Senate and a Democratic president and both those people, both those, those institutions continue to maintain that walls don't do things.

0 (25m 59s):
So I, I don't understand. So if Matt Gaetz wants to put forward a list of actual achievable things that don't actively damage the Republican Party's ability to beat Democrats, I'm happy to hear it. I said this before with Chip Roy was doing this against Kevin McCarthy, which he did earlier in the year, and then he named a bunch of concessions. I'm all in favor of that, that's fine. But if these concessions are non doable concessions the Democrats take advantage of, I'm not sure how that exactly is a big win and how it's not exactly posturing. Again, all of this puts whoever is running for Speaker in a, in a pretty major jam here because for example, Jim Jordan, he has come forward and he says, we're not gonna go to a vote without two 18, right? We're gonna need two 18 in order to go forward with a vote. We're not gonna have a vote on the Speaker until we've already decided behind closed doors.

0 (26m 41s):
Who's the Speaker?

15 (26m 43s):
It has to happen. We shouldn't go to the house floor until we have 218 votes for the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. We shouldn't have to go through what we did back in January. I'm all for that. I think I can bring our team together to accomplish that. And more importantly, once we get that done to do the work that needs to be done on the border, on crime, on inflation, on all these issues we have to address, I think I can do that. That's why I decided to run.

0 (27m 9s):
I mean, under what conditions is the big question. Under what conditions, what actually gets hammered out here is gonna define whether the ouster McCarthy was good or bad. And it seems like there was no plan in asked McCarthy. So maybe it ends up okay anyway, everybody scrambles and they end up coming with some sort of agreement. If that that's the case, then credit to Gaetz. But if it doesn't end up that way, if it's just sheer chaos or if we ends up back in the same situation with an incredibly weak Speaker, unable to keep his own people in line, then Democrats are going to win. Because again, if you look as though you are running a clown car, people will vote for Democrats even if their policies are absolute sheer garbage. The the one good piece of news here is that Donald Trump, who was speculating just a a few moments ago about possibly running for Speaker himself, at least he has stopped that nonsense that that was dumb.

0 (27m 50s):
And I'm not even sure why people were considering that. There's an active house rule right now on the Republican side that if you're under an active indictment, you can't be house Speaker and Trump's under multiple active indictments. Right. now, they would've had changed. The rule would've been super awkward. I don't know who thought that Trump had the skillset to be Speaker of the House anyway. It would've been very strange. But at least that's off the table when Trump endorses Jordan. So, so good for Trump for endorsing somebody at this point. One of the ways you can tell that Jordan is a good candidate is how much the left hates him. Sonny Hostin of the view. She says that Jim Jordan is a terrorist, literally a terrorist. Why is he strapping dynamite to himself? No, he was mean to her. One time,

16 (28m 23s):
I will just say about Jim Jordan, you know, he has been called by his own party by John John Boehner, a political terrorist. He's also been linked to the Ohio State sexual abuse scandal. I testified in front of Congress about something so simple cameras in courtrooms. He came in late, he looked disheveled, and he immediately was screaming and yelling and terrorized me and the other experts on the panel and describing him as a terrorist is exactly that. He's a chaos agent. And it came out of nowhere and he had no command of the subject that we were talking about, which made it even scarier.

16 (29m 4s):
So to have him, the thought of him being the Speaker of the House, I think leads to more chaos for his. But his role model is Donald Trump, who has no command of the language either.

0 (29m 16s):
Okay? Joy Behar ripping people for, for lack of command of the English language. And it's like watching a dog try to explain to, to a human, you know how language ought to work. You're mostly just amazed that the dog can speak English at this point. Like joy, joy, joy Behar ripping people for commanding the English language. Good stuff right there. Again, that is the single best case for Jim Jordan I've heard. Now here is the awkward thing. Okay? Here's the awkward thing. Whatever deal gets cut, the Republican party is going to have to now actually reestablish itself as a party. We've spent the last 15 years in the Republican party ripping power away from the people at the top of the Republican party. That has come with a couple of benefits and some pretty significant costs. The benefits are that the Republican party has gotten more right wing, or at least it did briefly when it came to, for example, spending the Tea Party movement, which I thought was terrific, I was a part of it, called on Congress to actually push back on spending.

0 (30m 7s):
The problem is that when you take away the leadership of the institutions and you simply destroy them, and you say that pretty much every you, you create a roiling boiling pot inside, for example, the Republican party and the Republican party infrastructure has no power to actually dictate. Well at that point, what you end up with, Zen endless ca endless chaos. You know it, it's so funny. Republicans will look at Nancy Pelosi on the one hand with deep and abiding hatred for her policies, and on the other hand, with a bit of admiration for the fact that she's kept her caucus together. I mean, we say this all the time. Nancy Pelosi is obviously good at her job. She had a fractious caucus. She kept it together. How? Because she crammed down on them. She said, listen, I'm not gonna give you money. I'm gonna find people to primary you. I'm gonna threaten your committee memberships.

0 (30m 48s):
I'm gonna run this place like a dictatorship. This is not a democracy. This is not a group of people getting together at late night at the club and figuring things out with comedy. This is me running the place. And so you can't have it both ways either. You wanna fight Nancy Pelosi, which requires an actual consolidation of power around institutions with leadership, or you wanna argue amongst yourselves in the name of principle and then lose to people like Nancy Pelosi, which is why they're gonna have to be some sort of tools that are put in the hands of the House leadership that are going to allow punishment for the members. Now, right now I understand everybody's running for Speaker, and so at the moment it's gonna be all of them basically appealing to the better angels of nature, right? So you have Jim Jordan, for example, defending Matt Gaetz from the calls for expulsion.

0 (31m 30s):
There have been some members that are Republican Caucus who have said that what he did here is ridiculous. They should expel him from the caucus. I don't think you expel him from the caucus when you have a four seat majority But. the, the basic notion here that going forward the leadership isn't sh will not have the tools to punish people. How exactly gonna operate it then how exactly gonna operate it? So right now, one of the people who's coming under even greater fire than Matt Gaetz in some ways is Nancy Mays. She joined for no reason anyone can explain seven hardliners in Ousting McCarthy. She is at best a moderate Republican, particularly on, on abortion. It, it shocked everybody when she joined to, to oust McCarthy. According to Politico, McCarthy and Mace didn't always see eye to eye But.

0 (32m 10s):
The California Republican had helped Mace secure her seat in Congress by pumping millions of dollars into her one struggling campaign. Mace's moved to aggressively fundraise off of her vote to balance McCarthy is only intensifying her colleagues angered towards her. For Mace. The anti McCarthy vote may prove a purposeful step in a chameleonic career that's already seen her swing repeatedly between Trump centric conservative and establishment bucking centrism Macy's making clear her vote for Speaker is up for the taking by either Steve Scalise or Representative Jim Jordan. Elsewhere in the GOP Revenges on the menu house Republicans are now weighing to expel mace from at least two centrist leaning groups she belonged to in the first place. That follows hard on a very awkward appearance for Nancy Mace on c n n, where she was sending out fundraising emails in the middle of the as Oscar McCarthy, and she was asked on c n N you ripped Matt Gatez for doing exactly the same thing earlier this year.

17 (32m 56s):
I'm asking people to go to my website@nancymace.org to help me to, to show their support because there, there are folks that are coming after me tonight. I I'm

18 (33m 7s):
Glad you brought that up because back in January when there were the marathon votes for Kevin McCarthy to get this job, he was fighting to take the gavel. This is something that you said

17 (33m 17s):
Back Gaetz is a fraud. Every time you voted against Kevin McCarthy last week, he sent out a fundraising email. What you saw last week was a constitutional process diminished by those kinds of political actions.

18 (33m 30s):
Of course, now here we are in October, you and Congressman Gaetz are, are in agreement on at least Ousting McCarthy. You were on a podcast together today, you yourself have been fundraising the ironing iron off that vote iron. How do you, how do you explain that to, to now?

17 (33m 46s):
Well, I have not been fundraising off of this every step of the way. I made my decision last night. I, I made the decision to fundraise over the last 24 hours because of the threats that I have received over fundraising and money drying up, which is why I need help.

0 (34m 1s):
Okay, so here's the deal. Republicans are, go, whoever takes over is gonna have to have some tools at their disposal. By the way, a government shutdown is still a possibility about 40 days from now. They have to figure this thing out really quick. They have to figure out new Speaker. They have to figure out what their approach is gonna be on the government. They need to do all of that like forthwith. Brian Rele, a Former aide who, Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, who's now at the Manhattan Institute. He said it becomes substantially harder to do a government spending deal because the message has been sent that Republicans should not rely on Democrats to pass any bills. Things can always get worse than no Compromise. Fringe has been strongly empowered and essentially has veto over house Republican policy, which can't be squared with what Democrats in the White House want. So if we end up with a government shutdown in the middle of bad economic news, I'll bring you some of that news in just a moment, and it's because Republicans are smacking each other in the back of the head.

0 (34m 46s):
How are voters gonna take that in the next congressional election? Again, we, we ought to have a little bit of vision beyond the next five minutes. Okay, we'll get to that in just one second.

Beam (34m 53s):
First, poor sleep. It can cause weight gain, mood issues, poor mental health, lower productivity. Sleep is the foundation of everybody's mental and physical health and performance. Having a consistent nighttime routine is non-negotiable. If you're struggling with sleep, you need to check out beam beam's. Top selling Beam Dream has a brand new formula. Dream contains a powerful all-natural blend of Reishi magnesium, Elon, and Agen to help you fall asleep, stay asleep, and wake up refreshed. Just mix beam dream into hot water or milk stir or froth, and enjoy before bedtime. Today my listeners get a special Discount on Beam's Dream Powder, their bestselling healthy hot cocoa for sleep with no added sugar. It's now available in delicious flavors like cinnamon, cocoa, Chocolate, peanut butter, and mint chip. Better Sleep has never tasted better. We've been using Beam down here at the office, and it is fantastic. If you wanna try Beam's bestselling dream powder, get up to 40% off for a a limited time when you go to shop beam.com/ Ben, use code Ben at checkout. That is shop b e a m.com/ Ben. Use code Ben for up to 40% off. Again, that is shop beam.com/ Ben. Use promo code Ben and get up to 40% off and get a better night's sleep starting like right now.

Jeremy's Razors (35m 54s):
Also, who doesn't love a good Columbus Day sale? Well, some people don't even like Columbus Day, but at Jeremy's razors, we want you to discover the new world of woke free shaving. Get 20% off selected Jeremy's razors products and bundles, including at Precision five starter Kit, the founder's kit, the beard kit, the skincare bundle, and more. Be a pioneer for a better shave and better hygiene. Don't wait. Make the switch today. Get yours at jeremy's razors.com.

0 (36m 14s):
Okay. Meanwhile, the Biden economy here is, is on very thin footing. Muhammad del Arian, who I, I really trust as an analyst on this sort of stuff. He says that the possibility of of avoiding a hard landing here is really, really decreasing pretty significantly. He has a piece over the Financial Times pointing this out. He says the economy is likely to weaken his markets internalize the significant likelihood that rates will stay higher for longer. He says, an intense period of rising interest rates high oil prices in a stronger dollar is pushing the financial market consensus on US economic growth away from the comforting notion of a soft landing. By my count, this will be the sixth time in the past 15 months that conventional wisdom shifts for the world's most influential economy. It's a pivot that unfortunately is likely to stick for longer this time around threatening what has been an impressively strong this economy, undermining genuine financial stability and exporting volatility to the rest of the world.

0 (36m 59s):
In just the last two weeks, the yield on the benchmark US tenure bond has risen by some 0.5 percentage points around 4.8% as part of a comprehensive shift in the entire interest rate structure. The move brought the change in yields to an eye popping one percentage point since the end of June, leading to higher borrowing rates for companies, more burdensome car loans for households, more pronounced and uneven deposit outflows from the banking system. As investors shift cash into money market accounts. Notably, the cost of a 30 year mortgage is up to 8%, making already expensive home purchases even less affordable. Pushing yields up in an increasingly disorderly manner is a combination of markets recognizing that the higher policy rates said by the Fed will be here for a while and they need to absorb a significant supply of treasury bonds due to large budgetary deficit. Plus, there's high oil prices.

0 (37m 40s):
These are developments that the economy and markets do not enjoy. They damp growth, they increase the threat of stagflation, and that continues to be a serious threat. There's a jobs report that a first glance looks really, really nice. A jobs report in September that showed 336,000 jobs added. But if the idea was that the economy is overheated and that we've spent too much money and that the economy needs to be cooled, then adding three 36,000 jobs, that's a very high rate. And doing that without really increasing the labor force participation rate in any serious way, which just means that, you know, basically the same percentage of people are in the labor force who were in the labor force before do continuing that sort of thing is not going to lead the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates.

0 (38m 21s):
They're gonna increase interest rates. Again, according to a b, c news. Being a little optimistic, it's possible the cooling of pay growth may help reassure the fed's inflation fighters who are scrutinizing every scrap of data to determine whether to raise their key rate. Again this year, still, the outsized job growth may stoke worries, the economy will expand too fast for inflation to cool. If they think, if people think by the way that the rates are gonna go up on bonds, for example, what does that do? It drives the bond yield up. The price on the bonds that we have already released into the market is going to go down. As those bond yields increase, that means eventually people are gonna shift their money out of stocks and into these very high yield bonds. When they do that, the stock market is going to stagnate. Already earnings are threatened. So again, we are, we are in a, a really tenor hook situation on the economy.

0 (39m 2s):
What Joe Biden, I think might be waiting for here, frankly, is for Republicans to shut down the government. Because if they shut down the government, at least he can blame his failing economy on somebody who is not him. This is just another reason why Republicans need to be smart and strategic about this sort of stuff, as opposed to grandstanding and, and creating a new Speaker who has no power to actually cudgel his own members into line. Because let's be real about this, the idea that you're gonna pass a party line budget without any ability to cuing your own members into line, that's gonna be a very difficult thing to do, particularly in the face of a democratic Senate. Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton in, she just comes outta the woodwork every so often to, to really wreck American politics further, I, I don't know why she's still on on the TVs, but she is, she has now called for the formal deprogramming of MAGA members.

0 (39m 45s):
They're in a cult. You see, if you're a Democrat and you cultish ly and slavishly worship Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton, or now an elderly ARD who has the inability to speak from his face hole, then that's because you're normal. But if you're a Trump fan, or even if you're not a Trump fan, but you voted for him, this means that you are a MAGA member who must be deprogrammed.

19 (40m 4s):
I mean, we had very strong partisans in both parties in the past, and we had very bitter battles over all kinds of things. Gun control and climate change, and the economy and taxes But. there wasn't this little tale of extremism waving, you know, wagging the dog of the Republican party as it is today. And sadly, so many of those extremists, those MAGA extremists take their marching orders from Donald Trump, who has no credibility left by any measure. He's only in it for himself. He's now defending himself in civil actions and criminal actions.

19 (40m 44s):
And when do they break with him? You know, because at some point, you know, maybe there needs to be a formal deprogramming of the cult members, but something needs to happen.

0 (40m 55s):
What does that mean? A formal deprogramming of the cult members? Does that sound fascistic to you? It sounds fascistic to me. I'm talking about fun adult camps like she once talked about reeducation camps. Like what, what would formal deprogramming even look like from Hillary Clinton? And this, this should be frightening. It should be particularly frightening given the fact that according to Newsweek, the federal government believes the threat of violence and major civil disturbances around the 2024 US presidential election is so great. It has quietly created a new category of extremists. It seeks to track and encounter. Donald Trump's army of MAGA followers. The FBI apparently is going to pursue and prevent what it calls domestic terrorism without direct reference to political parties or affiliations. But, the vast majority of its current anti-government investigations are of Trump supporters.

0 (41m 37s):
According to classified data obtained by Newsweek, a current FBI official says The FBI's an almost impossible situation. The FBI's intent on stopping domestic terrorism and any REIT of January 6th. But they're focusing on Former, president Trump and his MAGA supporters. This is what they're doing right now. Newsweek spoke to over a current a dozen current or Former government officials specializing in terrorism in a three month investigation to understand the current domestic security landscape and to evaluate what Biden is doing about what it calls domestic terrorism. And they've been looking at secret FBI and D H s data tracking incidents, threats, investigations, and cases. It seems as though they're cracking down on maggot members, presumably at the behest of President Biden who tweeted it last September.

0 (42m 19s):
Donald Trump and MAGA Republicans are a threat to the very so of this country. So that means the people who oppose Joe Biden need deprogramming. The FBI needs to target them. All of this should scare the living hell out of you. And it's not just by the way that they're targeting the common Donald Trump voter. They're also targeting anybody who's just heterodox. The Biden administration meanwhile continues to target Elon Musk. How many agencies are targeting Elon Musk at this point? We've got the, we've got the SS E C, which is targeting, we've got the F T C, which is targeting him. We've got the N L R B I believe is targeting him, which is like every agency of the federal government is now targeting Elon Musk. That's weird. Why is that happening? I can't imagine. Other than that, he has heterodox political opinions. The s e C said Thursday, it is seeking another court order that would compel Elon Musk to testify as part of an investigation into his purchase of Twitter now called acts.

0 (43m 3s):
The s e c said, in a filing in a San Francisco federal court must fail to appear for testimony on September 15th, despite an investigative subpoena served by the S E C and having raised no objections at the time it was served. But two days before schedule testimony must abruptly notify the S e C staff. He would not appear. The s e c said, it has been conducting a fact finding investigation involving the period before Musk's take over. Last year when Twitter was still publicly traded, the agency said, it has not concluded that anyone violated federal securities laws. They're just investigating, you know, for the fun of it and for the hell of it, by the way, it's, it's why would you investigate Elon Musk for buying Twitter and turning it into X by pretty much every available account he has lost tens of billions of dollars in that transaction. So, what exactly is the horrible thing that he did when he took the hit the answer of course, is that put pressure on Musk and, and hope to shut him up, is the basic idea.

0 (43m 49s):
Hillary Clinton, of course, spells that one out. Once again. She says, you know, we need these big platforms to do what Hillary Clinton wants them to do.

19 (43m 56s):
People from all walks of life are mounting a massive resistance to autocracy, to the oppression of women and girls, to irresponsible big tech companies whose platforms are absolutely rife with misogyny and sexism and viral attacks on women in the public sphere. So we are trying to tell a different story, a different narrative for the future by not only standing up for democracy, human rights and progress, but highlighting women who are doing it in their lives every single day.

0 (44m 36s):
So it's the big platforms that are to blame, obviously. So it's Hillary Clinton, and we, we all know which platforms she's talking about right there. So Elon Musk tweeted out a comprehensive overhaul of these agencies is sorely needed, along with a commission to take punitive action against those individuals who have abused their regulatory power for personal and political gain. Can't wait for this to happen. He says the probability of it happening is a hundred percent. Well, We can only hope and pray that that is true because the threats against Musk are have been pretty extraordinary. Okay. Meanwhile, it's time for some things I like and some things that I hate. So let's begin with a, a quick thing that I like from my colleague Candace Owen. So, so Candace recently spoke at a campus, I'm not sure what campus this was, and she was hit with the usual question, which is some activist got up a, a trans LGBTQ plus divided by sign activist and said, why are you hurting my feelings?

0 (45m 21s):
And hats off to Candace for this excellent response.

20 (45m 26s):
Hello.

21 (45m 27s):
What do you have to say to the trans students on this campus who actively feel victimized by your presence here

20 (45m 32s):
Today? Life's tough. Get a helmet, man. I'm too pregnant for this next question.

0 (45m 41s):
Yep, that is, that is right. By the way, I love the, I'm too pregnant for this line, Candace, you know, again, showing her status as a birthing person, how dare she? But that's where Candace is at her best. Okay. Other things that I like. So obviously I was on a very long plane ride over the course of the evening and I got a chance to watch a movie that I had not seen when it came out in about 2010, but it's excellent. It's called Temple Grandin. Good weekend watch if you happen to be able to get access to it. The, the entire movie is about a, a woman who is known as sort of one of the, the great advocates for people who are autistic. She was diagnosed with autism when she was very, very young. And the movie is essentially what it's like to be autistic. It's, it's an excellent depiction of what autism is like, how, how autistic people see things in visual terms, but can't really communicate with people in the same way that everyone else can, but have different abilities.

0 (46m 30s):
And, and it's, it's, it's really quite a beautiful movie. It's definitely worth the watch. It was on H B O originally. It, it has David Strayhorn and Chloe Dane, and it's, it's, it's really quite good. So totally worth to watch. Excellent performance all around Temple Brandon, something unique to watch this weekend. A time for a quick thing that I hate. Okay, so C b s I gotta say, this is pretty astonishing. So, c b s has different rules for whose face they blur when they're showing criminals or alleged criminals being taken from, say, a, a one particular station to another. So, c b s news in New York covered two different situations very differently. There is a, a suspect who stabbed to death, a left wing guy named Ryan Carson in New York City.

0 (47m 17s):
And this, this suspect, his face was blurred by C B SS News. Somebody on the Twitters took that footage and juxtaposed it with the footage of Daniel Penny. Remember Daniel Penny? He was the, he's the Marine who subdued a threatening man on the subway. The threatening man was black. The guy ended up dying. Daniel Penny. They were perfectly fine with showing his face on the news this suspect. However, they were not going to show the face on the news. Here's what the footage looked like.

23 (47m 43s):
This is footage of the man police say they were looking for. He has not yet been identified, but we are blurring his face at the moment while charges are pending. We watched again as all of this went down. More than a dozen officers were around when it happened before entering a home here on Lafayette Avenue. Now,

0 (48m 2s):
Well, that's weird. That's weird. I, I wonder why they would do such a thing. Probably for the same exact reason that every time you read a crime story, if it's a white person who commits a crime against a person of minority status, their race is mentioned in every single story. And if it's a black person who, for example, punches a an Asian person, the race is never mentioned because the media would rather obscure for you the actual data involved in the story than allow you the possibility of maybe thinking the wrong thing. You might, you can't think the wrong thing. Meanwhile, people who don't want you to think the wrong thing, that would include Ryan Carson's friends. So remember Ryan Carson was murdered and now people have started to GoFundMe for his death and they're using the money. I kid you not to, this is his friends, to give themselves time off from work.

0 (48m 42s):
Quote, hi everyone. We are a collective of Ryan's close friends, reeling from a brutal loss. We're asking for your help on behalf of his partner and easing the burden and stress of this horrifying situation so that We can have space and time to grieve and remember, Ryan, immediate needs are to offset the cost of working class people taking time off of work to properly mourn. So they are paying themselves, in other words, not family members, not his girlfriend themselves, which is, I suppose, a unique grift. That's, that's pretty astonishing sort of stuff right there. Again, bad ideas have consequences. Alrighty, guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be getting into the topic of Sexy Red. She's a rapper, most famous for Pound Town, and she has some interesting words about Donald Trump.

0 (49m 24s):
If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months for annual annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.