0 (0s):
Donald Trump calls on the Republican National Committee to cancel all future GOP debates. while Ron DeSantis finally comes out swinging against Trump and so called Red pilled. influencers are telling young men not to get married. We examine whether they're right. I'm Bench Shapiro.

ExpressVPN (13s):
This is the Bench Shapiro Show The Ben Shapiro Show is sponsored by ExpressVPN I. talk about them every single show. Why haven't you gotten a VPN yet? Get ExpressVPN right now at ExpressVPN dot com slash bed.

0 (27s):
Alrighty. Folks, So President Trump is basically now declaring the primary is over. And look, if you look at the national polling data right now, he is up by a long shot on the rest of the field. If, you compare this to say 2016. at this point in the 2016 race, Trump was up maybe 10 to 12 points on the rest of the field. At this point, Trump is up by virtually all of the polling about 40 points over the rest of the field. The latest economist dug gov poll, For example, has Trump at 53%, Dessan at 14, and everybody else well below 10. The Monmouth poll before that has Trump at 55 Toan at 17. Everybody else well below 10. However, this is not a national primary. When you look at Iowa For example Trump's lead, it starts to shrink a little bit, not that he's not in the lead, but it's closer to 30 points than to 40 points.

0 (1m 8s):
When you move on to New Hampshire, his lead again is closer to 30 points than it is to 40 points. At least. Fif at least 45 to 50% of the Republican base in these primaries does not want Donald Trump, or at the very least, is is talking about voting already about people who are not Donald Trump. And there's a, a solid number of people who like Donald Trump, but would be open to others. This is what the polling is showing right now. Well, Trump would like to cancel all future debates because he says that we need to train our fire on Biden. Now, that's kind of an ironic claim coming from President Trump, who's trained most of his fire At this point on various prosecutors going after him or on Ron DeSantis. He's not trained in enormous amounts of fire on President Biden to this point. However, trying to end the primaries early is obviously in Trump's best interest.

0 (1m 52s):
Whether the R n C goes along with anything like that is another question. According to media yesterday, the Trump campaign has now asked the R n C to put an end to any further primary debates following a second debate that former President Donald Trump skipped a note from senior advisor Chris Savita was sent from the Trump press office, said tonight's GOP debate was as boring and inconsequential as the first debate. Nothing that was said will change the dynamics of the primary contest being dominated by President Trump. President Trump has a 40 or 50 point lead in the primary election and a 10 point lead over Joe Biden in the general election. Well, that is according to one poll. We talked about that poll a couple of days ago. There are two separate polls that have come out since then. One with Biden up, one with Biden up five this to suggest that in the real club politics, polling average For example, Trump is up 10 is not right in the average.

0 (2m 33s):
Basically, he and and Biden are running within margin of error. The R N C should immediately put an end to any further primary debate so we can train our fire on crooked Joe Biden and quit wasting time and money that could be going to evicting Biden from the White House. Now again, one of the problems here is that the argument that team Trump is gonna spend all that money on evicting Biden from the White House ignores the fact that an extraordinary amount of the money that is poured into Trump's campaign has been spent on his legal bills and will going forward, be spent on his legal bills, particularly if all of his assets are locked up in New York because of this fraud case. Meanwhile, president Trump is, is doing the Trump thing. He did this u a w speech the other day that was not to the U aaw. It was about the u a w and stagecraft, you, you could call it stagecraft, you could also call it fibbing.

0 (3m 17s):
So President Trump stacked the room, apparently with a bunch of his own supporters, many of whom were not union members. In fact, there was one person carrying a sign that said, union members for for Trump, who then admitted to the press that he was not, in fact a union member and had basically been handed the sign, according to the UK guardian, when Donald Trump gave a speech in Michigan on Wednesday, seeking to capitalize on the u a w strike at least two crowd members holding signs saying Union members for Trump and Auto workers for Trump turned out to be neither. According to the Detroit News, one individual in the crowd who held the sign that said, union members for Trump acknowledged she was not a union member. When approached by a reporter after the event, another person with the sign that read Auto workers for Trump said he was not an Auto worker. When asked for an interview, both people did not provide their names. The paper said that between four and 500 people attended the event.

0 (3m 57s):
It was at a non-unionized automotive parts supplier in Clinton Township. So even go to like a unionized shop, he went to like a non-union shop to do a speech about how the u a w workers deserved more and how they were being screwed by President Biden. Now, again, the general message that Trump gave with regard to Biden and electric vehicle mandates and all the rest, a lot of that is true. However, again, the manipulation of the stagecraft is pretty wild. It's pretty wild. Okay, well, Donald Trump's lawyers, meanwhile, as we say, they're looking down the barrel of a real problem for Donald Trump with regard to his assets. Now, people I think are not spending enough time to energy on the fraud ruling in New York. The reason being, again, all these criminal indictments, they're gonna go whichever way they're going to go, and everybody knows that they're politically motivated.

0 (4m 38s):
The fraud ruling is also politically motivated, but the real world impacts that fraud ruling is devastatingly to President Trump on a personal and a familial level. President Trump's lawyers apparently don't really know what to do because the judge in this case is so obviously partisan, and so obviously over the top, the judge actually fined Trump's lawyers for making arguments he didn't like in that last ruling. According to the New York Times, Trump could lose his grip on buildings including Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue, the Trump International Hotel looking overlooking at Central Park and all the rest. The judge sided with New York Attorney General Letitia James, and as a punishment, the judge effectively revoked Trump's licenses to operate all of those properties, and it left much of his New York operation hanging in the balance.

0 (5m 19s):
Trump is expected to appeal. He's already sued just justice anger on himself who's been a thorn in the side of the Trump lawyers for more than a year. In a Wednesday, hearing Trump's lawyers pled for clarity, asking Justice Agron to explain exactly what the effect of his ruling would be, and the judge refused to say. So it's, it's totally unclear what happens now. So it could spell the end of the Trump organization. It could the for force, the sell off of several properties. It could basically destroy Trump's organization in New York, more likely said legal experts is a period in which Trump would be unable to operate his properties, which would be handed to a court appointed chief executive. Such an arrangement would preserve Trump's ownership while preventing him and his two adult sons from running the machinery of the Empire without permission from the court, which could be a problem depending on how much leverage he's taking out against buildings, For example, in order to fund his, his legal enterprises.

0 (6m 3s):
Now, all these are obstacles to, to Trump's reelect. Again, it is not that Trump can't beat Biden. He certainly can. Is that a probability? I think it's not a probability. I think that it is a, I would say a 42 40 5% shot that Trump would beat Joe Biden in a general election, given his performance in the last election, given the fact that right now he's not the actual nominee yet. and so many Democrats are focusing in on the failures of Joe Biden rather than how much they hate Donald Trump. Obviously, Joe Biden is focusing in, in tremendous fashion on Trump and Trump alone. He, the only reason basically that he stayed in the race is because Trump is the nominee. He believes that he's the only candidate that he can beat. Get to more of that in just one second.

ExpressVPN (6m 39s):
First, I wanna talk to you about Daily Wire's most trusted privacy partner and premier sponsor of this show Express at VPN. Internet service providers know every single website you visit and can sell this information to ad companies and tech giants who then use that data to target you. Express VPN helps prevent all that. They reroute your network data through a secure encrypted tunnel so your internet service provider can't see or sell your activity online. Express VPN is super easy to use. You just fire up the app, you click one button, it works on phones, laptops, routers, so everyone who shares your wifi can be protected. Our entire team is using expressive VPN while we are here in Israel, which gives us peace of mind knowing that our work and our personal data is in fact protected. You should do the same. Protect your online privacy by visiting ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben to get the same VPN I use, use my link to get three extra months for free. That's e X P r e s s VPN dot com slash Ben ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben. Go check them out right now. It's ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben. I've been using them for years. They protect all my data, and obviously I take my data pretty seriously. You should take your data just as seriously as I do by heading on over to express at VPN dot com slash Ben and getting that extra three months for free.

0 (7m 41s):
Okay? So President Trump trying to forestall all the rest of the primaries by essentially shutting down the debate. It, it's not going to work, obviously, but he has been so far able to sort of skate over the top. He's just doing what he wants to do and everybody else is kind of in the scrum fighting each other. Well, finally, Ron DeSantis is actually training his firearm on Trump, and this has been, you know, the, the, the sort of pattern when it comes to primaries with Trump going all the way back to 2016. If you go back to 2016, what you'll see is that Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio were under the weird assumption that Donald Trump's support base would simply collapse at a certain point, and then they would just walk into the nomination. That obviously didn't happen. Instead, they ended up fighting each other to the end, and then John Kasick stayed in to make sure that Donald Trump was the nominee by sucking up like 10, 15% of the vote in competitive primaries.

0 (8m 25s):
and so Donald Trump waltzed to the nomination, despite the fact that in the early states, he was only winning 30, 35% of the vote. Well, today, Trump is a lot stronger than he was in 2016, and he's been a sitting president before. A huge percentage of the base is absolutely addicted to President Trump. They love the guy. and so whoever's running against Trump at a certain point here is going to have to stop at this notion that Trump is going to just fall off the road somewhere. He's not. Someone's gonna have to take him on directly. And the only person right now who's positioned to do that is the guy who's number two in the race, Ron, DeSantis, DeSantis for all the slings and arrows that he's taken, is basically in the polls where he has been for the last six months. He is, he is stuck in the 15 to 25% range. He is in, in a second place holding pattern.

0 (9m 7s):
and so something has to change. and so finally, DeSantis, who has now done two separate debates with the rest of the, with the rest of the second tier Republicans, he's beginning to fight back because he's making an an argument. The argument basically is, look, I I, I won the last two debates. I'm the only other solid candidate. I'm the only guy who's running double digits, even against Trump in these primaries. So if you're gonna consolidate the field, don't consolidate the field around one candidate who has not even had to go through a debate and who has a lot of blemishes on his record. Instead, why not consolidate the field around two candidates and then let us battle it out? And then if Trump wins, Trump wins. By the way, that, that is what the, the polls are showing. The, the, the polls are showing that people believe that that DeSantis won last debate.

0 (9m 48s):
For example, c n n focus group came out yesterday and that c n n focus group suggested that DeSantis was the big winner of the debate.

3 (9m 55s):
Show of hands now, okay, do an alphabetical Lord, who you think did best during this debate. All of you, Bergham one, Christine. Okay, so it has toughness and appeal to anybody tonight, DeSantis. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. Haley, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Pence, Ramis, Swami one

0 (10m 23s):
Scott. As you can see, DeSantis cleared the field when it came to when, when it came to this debate and, and the polling data support that same sort of notion. So 5 38 did a poll on the debate, and what they found is that 33% of likely Republican voters who watched the debate said DeSantis performed the best. Only 5% said that he performed the worst. Nikki Haley came in second. She had an 18% rating as the strongest debater. 7% rated her as the worst VA Ramaswamy 15% said he did the best, but 10% also said he did the worst. A lot of people love the va. A lot of people hate the vague. Everybody hated Chris Christie, Tim Scott basically did not register. People hated Mike Pence's performance. Nobody understands why Doug Bergham is on the stage. So DeSantis is now making the case that he should have made a long time ago, which is when it comes to winning the the general election.

0 (11m 8s):
I'm your guy. I've, I have the proven track record in Florida. I have not lost to President Biden before, while Donald Trump has and Donald Trump has to stop ducking debates. It's about time for Donald Trump to actually debate me. and so he is now calling for a one-on-one debate with Trump directly. Here was DeSantis yesterday getting a lot more aggressive with Trump.

4 (11m 26s):
He's had a lot to say about me on social media really since 2022, right before the midterm election. He started, he started attacking me when I was, we all Republicans were supposed to be united for a red wave. No, he tried to attack me and has been doing it a lot. You know, it's one thing to do it behind a keyboard, step up on stage and do it to my face. I'm ready for it. You used to say I was a great governor. Now all of a sudden you're saying the opposite. Let's have that discussion and I'll do it. We could do it one-on-one. I was with Sean last night. Let's do that and let's, let's give the American people the choice that they deserve.

0 (11m 59s):
Now, is Trump actually going to do that? Of course not. Trump is not gonna do that. And that, that should raise some questions if Trump is unable to debate Ron DeSantis, who is an excellent Republican governor from Florida, and who is the second place finisher in, in all of these polls right now, and by the way, who actually is a threat to him in Iowa? I know that everybody is writing off DeSantis overall right now, but the reality is that DeSantis has done an enormous amount of groundwork in Iowa right now. DeSantis is running by the latest c b s news poll in the twenties in Iowa. Trump has a major lead, but that's not the way the Iowa caucus is run. They're caucuses and those caucuses rely a lot on ground game. They rely a lot on endorsements. Iowa is still very much an open question. There's a world where DeSantis wins Iowa.

0 (12m 40s):
and so if, if Trump just keeps ignoring DeSantis, I mean at a certain point, somebody's gonna have to take it to Trump, and DeSantis is gonna have to be the guy who does it because no one else in the field really is capable of doing that. Now, the big problem here is that when you're looking at consolidation of the field, Trump wants the field to consolidate to just him. I think it's premature to do that, considering again, all of his vulnerabilities that we've discussed, ranging from the fact that he's wildly unpopular with suburban women to the fact that he already lost to Joe Biden the first time, to the fact that he does not have the self-control to actually meticulously attack Joe Biden's record, right? All the things we all know about Donald Trump, those should be fair game for debate. But consolidating the field to two is necessary At this point if you actually want there to be any sort of race. Instead, we have a bunch of also rans who are staying in the field, and this is ridiculous.

0 (13m 22s):
Okay? There were two serious candidates on the stage in that last debate. Ron, DeSantis, Nikki Haley, everyone else on the stage is, is, is, is a joke in in terms of why they, why are they there? They should not be there. The ve Ram Swami is not running for president. He's running for Senate from Ohio, or he's running for a cabinet position under President Trump, or he is running for a new business in the media. Chris Christie is running a pure revenge play. He is a homicide bomber of politics. He, he committed the world's most famous political murder suicide in New Hampshire against Marco Rubio, basically ensuring the nomination of Donald Trump. And apparently he wants to do the same thing again. Christie says, I'm not gonna drop out. Why should I drop out? The answer to why you should drop out is 'cause you have no shot of winning the presidential nomination. So why are you doing this?

0 (14m 2s):
Stop it.

5 (14m 4s):
If it all is gonna come down to New Hampshire, and you know this better than anyone having run, you ran a great campaign in 2016, how are you getting the sense the field is going to be winnowed? And if you're down before New Hampshire, would you drop out of the race?

6 (14m 21s):
Okay, no, I have every intention of winning New Hampshire, and I wouldn't drop out before that, and I don't think I'm gonna see any evidence that would compel me to do so. but what I would also say to you is, at least what I see up in New Hampshire is Donald Trump in almost every poll, well below 40%,

0 (14m 39s):
The unbelievable arrogance of people like Chris Christie staying in the race, even if Chris Christie were to win New Hampshire. Do you think that Chris Christie goes on to even compete in South Carolina or any of the other primaries? The answer of course is no. The answer is no. This field needs to win and it needs to win fast. If there's gonna be anyone to challenge Trump, maybe there's no one who's gonna challenge Trump. Maybe the polls are exactly right nationally speaking, and Trump just blows away the rest of the field. Maybe fine. But if there's gonna be any alternative, the field has to win. Again, I'm looking at that real clear politics, polling average. And what you are seeing that real clear politics polling average is that even in the national polling, Trump is at like 53, which means 47% of the Republican base is not in love with Trump. But you have 83 candidates, including like Christie at two and Scott at three, and Pence at four, and Ramis Swami at five, and Haley at seven.

0 (15m 24s):
That field is gonna have to winnow and winnow pretty quickly. If anyone is going to challenge Trump, and again, decis is gonna have to get a lot more aggressive on the campaign trail against Trump, against Trump among other people. In just a second, we'll get to Joe Biden, who is deeply relying on Donald Trump's candidacy in order to project him back to the presidency of the United States.

Beam (15m 42s):
First, did you know that poor sleep really bad for you can cause weight gain, mood issues, poor mental health, lower productivity Sleep is the foundation of our mental and physical health and performance in our days. Having a consistent nighttime routine, non-negotiable, you need it. If you're struggling with sleep, you really should check out Beam Beam's top selling Beam Dream. They have a new formula. Dream contains a powerful all natural blend of REI Magnesium ine and epigene to help you fall asleep, stay asleep, and help you wake up refresh. Just mix Beam dream into hot water or milk stir or froth, and enjoy before bedtime. Today my listeners get a special discount on the Beam Dream powder. That's their bestselling healthy hot cocoa for sleep with no added sugar. It's available in delicious flavors like cinnamon, cocoa, Chocolate, peanut butter, and mint chip. Better sleep has never tasted better. If you wanna try Beam's bestselling dream powder, get up to 40% off today for a limited time when you go to shop Beam dot com slash Ben, use code Ben at checkout. That's shop b e a m.com/ Ben. Use code Ben for up to 40% off Beam sent the product down to the offices. Our staff is loving it. Go check it out right now. Shop Beam dot com slash Ben, use code Ben and get 40% off.

6 (16m 43s):
Okay? Meanwhile, Joe Biden's entire candidacy is reliant on Donald Trump being the Republican nominee. He went to Arizona yesterday.

0 (16m 49s):
He gave a speech, the entire speech was about how Donald Trump is the s scourge of the world. And of course, he has to run this campaign because if he's forced to run on his record, he loses. So he is going to run purely on the idea that Donald Trump is a threat to democracy and all the rest. Now, back in 2022, some of us, he scoffed this strategy. We said, well, yeah, but he, he's a bad president. And his bizarre speech in front of Independence Hall flanked by US Marines in the background with a blood red background, was absurd and ugly and quasi terrifying. And, and yet, and yet, because Trump was seen as such a, as a threat by so many sort of moderate voters, the the result was that the Democrats Overperformed in 2022. and so they're gonna run that same playbook back again.

0 (17m 30s):
And here was Joe Biden yesterday talking about how the MAGA movement is a dangerous threat to democracy.

7 (17m 35s):
Democracy is not a partisan issue. It's an American issue

0 (17m 39s):
That he looks

7 (17m 40s):
Terrible. I've come to honor the McCain Institute and Library because they're a home of a proud Republican who put his country first. Our commitment should be no less, less 'cause democracy should deny all Americans, regardless of political affiliation.

0 (17m 53s):
He's not even speaking English now

7 (17m 55s):
And there's something dangerous happening in America now. There's an extremist movement that does not share the basic beliefs in our democracy. The MAGA movement, not every Republican, not even a majority Republican, is adhered to the maga extremist ideology.

0 (18m 11s):
Dude, I know

7 (18m 12s):
I've been able to work with Republicans my whole career. There's no question the day's Republican party is driven and intimidated by maga Republican extremists, their ex extreme is generative, carried out fundamentally all of the institutions of American democracy as we know it.

0 (18m 29s):
That dude, I would say he's on Valium, but this is his natural state. This is when they haven't pumped him fully. The amphetamines. Wow. Wow. I mean, so again, this is his pitch. His pitch is going to be that he is the person to protect you from the threat to democracy. That is Donald Trump. He's gonna play dead. The good news is he doesn't have to play at it. He just is, you know, authenticity in casting. He is just a, a walking animatronic corpse As producer Zach has suggested, he looks like he's direct from the Hall of Presidents at Disneyland. I mean, like, actually that is more lifelike than Joe. Biden is At this point. But again, is that a rip on him? Not if the pitch is the guy on the other side of the aisle is a crazy person who's gonna destroy American democracy. Now you know that that's crap. I know that that's crap, but a lot of the American people doesn't believe that.

0 (19m 12s):
So here's Joe Biden going through all of this is a, he started quoting Maga Maga quotes. Here we go, Maga quotes with Joe Biden. What's amazing about Joe Biden, I've never heard the, the longest word in the English language is pneumo ultra microscopic silicon volcano osis. Or at least it was until the speech in which Joe Biden strung together at least 8,000 words into one. It was an amazing achievement. I, I'm, I'm not sure I've ever seen a word this long, like the word you're about to hear.

7 (19m 37s):
Just consider these as actual quotes from Maga, the MAGA movement quote, I am your retribution, slitting throats of civil servants, replacing them with extreme political cronies.

0 (19m 51s):
That's a long word.

7 (19m 52s):
Maga extremist for claims support for law enforcement, only to say, we quote, we must destroy the f b i. It's not one person. It's a controlling element of the house. Republican party whitewash attacks of January 6th by calling the spearing and stomping of police a leg quote, a legitimate political discourse.

0 (20m 19s):
Okay? Again, this is gonna be the shtick, and this is gonna be the shtick all the way up to the election. And he says it's an inflection point in our history. This is his closing pitch. It's an inflection point in our history.

7 (20m 29s):
I've said it before. We're at an inflection point in our history, one of those moments that not only happens once every several generations, it happens once every eight or nine generations where the decisions made in a short period of time we're in now are gonna determine the course of this country and the world for the next six or seven decades. So you, me, every American who's committed to preserving our democracy and our constitutional protections, we carry a special responsibility, okay?

0 (21m 1s):
Again, like all of this is garbage, but the case that he's making is going to be, and it always comes down to this when it's Biden versus Trump, who is less off-putting, right? Who is the person who's going to project solidity? Now, when it comes to record, Trump's record is way more solid than Biden's without a doubt. When it comes to personality Biden particularly solid, the good news is that he's not alive anymore. So you don't have to worry about whether he's solid or not, because corpses generally aren't all that volatile. In just a second, we'll get to the other flaws in Joe Biden's candidacy.

EnviroKlenz (21m 31s):
First, when it comes to the air that you breathe, it is a lot more polluted than you think. I'm not just talking about like outdoors. If you live in Los Angeles and your lungs are turning black, I'm talking about the fact that you and your family's health may be affected by the air quality in your home. Allergens and germs floating in the area you breathe can make you sick. But the good news is there's technology out there that helps you purify your living space easily and affordably within viral cleanse. You'll never have to worry again. Envir Cleanse is an in-home air purifying unit designed to destroy cold and flu viruses, allergy inflaming, toxins, mold than even more in viral cleanse promises far fewer colds allergies and better sleep. Their air purifiers come in all sizes, colors and prices to fit every budget. And right now you can shop their Flash Sale while supplies last in Viro Cleanse. It's the air purifier we use in our office. We love it. With cold season coming up, traveling as much as I am, I do not need to get sick. Like really, it would be bad. Breathe in Pure Air, live a healthier life with the Enviro cleanse, Flash Sale. Visit ek pure.com. Use code Ben for 25% off your Enviro Cleanse home air purification unit during their Flash Sale. That's ek pure.com code Ben e kpu.com promo code Ben and get 25% off.

7 (22m 31s):
And meanwhile, again, Joe Biden's entire campaign is predicated on Donald Trump being the nominee, because if he's not the nominee, he's got a real problem. One of those big problems is the fact that he is as corrupt as the day is long. So the House yesterday commenced their impeachment inquiry. So I suggested beforehand that I, I don't really see the strategic need for an impeachment inquiry given the fact we are already on the Republican side looking into all of his corruption. I'm not sure how like putting a stamp, impeachment inquiry helps things other than it sort of boxes you in because you don't come to an impeachment at the end of the impeachment inquiry. You exonerate the guy, and the question is gonna be whether you have enough votes, even on the Republican side of the, for an actual impeachment, that means holding together your caucus in really strong fashion, which is kind of a problem since again, the impeachment inquiry was launched without a vote in the house, meaning that the, the majority in the house, the Republican majority was not even there.

0 (23m 22s):
And the, the fact is that that McCarthy could not get enough Republicans to vote on the dotted line with regard to an impeachment inquiry to launch it that way, which raises the question as to whether he is gonna get enough Republicans to vote for an actual impeachment, which would be a giant failed. If you launch an inquiry without coming to an actual impeachment, you get nothing out of it. So the Republicans did it anyway. They launched the impeachment inquiry. A lot of people think that that was an attempt by McCarthy to stave off the right flank saying, listen, I'm giving you guys what you want. You got the impeachment inquiry. What do you want from me? Okay, whatever, whatever. This is that yesterday they had a six hour hearing on impeachment. It was not like amazing for the Republican party. They didn't present any firsthand witnesses. Instead, they heard some testimony from a variety of, of sort of different scholars, including Jonathan Turley, forensic accountant, Bruce Dubinski, former Justice Department tax attorney, Eileen O'Connor.

0 (24m 10s):
They, they knew going in that Jonathan Turley was, was going to say that they have not the evidence to impeach Biden yet. The problem is that that is the headline coming out of the impeachment inquiry Day one is that the Republicans own witness said you can't impeach him based on what you got right now. Here was Jonathan Turley yesterday.

8 (24m 26s):
This is a question of an impeachment inquiry. It is not a vote on articles of impeachment. In fact, I do not believe that the current evidence would support articles of impeachment. That is something that an inquiry has to establish, but I also do believe that the House has passed the threshold for an impeachment inquiry into the conduct of President Biden.

0 (24m 53s):
Okay? So it's that first part that everybody is focusing in on, is truly saying, well, I don't have the evidence yet to impeach, but it's okay. They, they're ignoring the second part where he says an impeachment inquiry would be appropriate. You can see Jamie Raskin, who's sitting next to Comer, who's leading the inquiry, James Comer. You can see Raskin, who's a Democrat, kind of shifting in his seat, gleeful that Turley said that they don't have enough evidence to impeach right now. Well, the evidence continues to emerge. Yesterday, according to Breitbart, Hunter Biden apparently referenced selling access to President Joe Biden as the keys to my family's only asset. According to messages from Hunter Biden's iCloud backup released by the House Ways and Means Committee. On Wednesday, the committee released information confirming Devin Archer's testimony that Hunter Biden traveled the world selling access to the Biden brand, meaning Joe Biden Hunter referred to access to Joe as quote the keys to quote my family's only asset, which is pretty strong language.

0 (25m 42s):
Documents obtained by the committee confirm associates of the Biden business had direct access to the White House and then VP Joe Biden's advisors. According to the committee, Biden's Associates were told not to mention Joe being involved. White House logs show many Biden business associates visited the White House multiple times. In addition, after the I r s launched its investigation into the Biden family, Hunter Biden apparently, quote, expected all of this stuff to go away when his dad becomes president, according to an email between Hunter Biden and a C n n producer that the committee actually obtained. Again, the producer has an email from Hunter saying he expected all this stuff to go away when his dad became president. So that's not good Now that there will be more evidence to emerge for sure, comer for his part. He said, we now have evidence that the Chinese government is sending direct payments to Joe Biden's immediate family.

0 (26m 25s):
Well, of course that's true. We, we knew that.

9 (26m 28s):
Have you been able to identify what specifically Joe Biden did to get paid?

10 (26m 35s):
Well, all these people who were paying the Bidens, first of all, Joe Biden met with every single one of them or talked to 'em on the phone, even though he's lied to the American people and said he never met with any of them. He met with all of them. They were all in trouble. They were all needing help from the United States. If you talk about the Romanian money, the Ukrainian money, they were being investigated for corruption in their home countries. They needed help from Joe Biden in China. This was the Chinese government. This was the Chinese government sending direct payments to Joe Biden's immediate family. And what they needed was help navigating the bureaucracy and eliminating barriers to entry in our markets.

0 (27m 14s):
And all that is true and more evidence is going to drop here, and it's not going to be good for Joe Biden. Now, Democrats for their part, there were dunking on Republicans yesterday that were suggesting that they've got nothing. There's no evidence, all the rest of this kind of stuff. But it doesn't matter because in the General American perception of Joe Biden, the idea that he's clean and pure and honorable, no one thinks that the polls show people think that Joe Biden is corrupt, mainly 'cause he's corrupt. But here are Democrats yesterday, slaying, slay. Go, go ahead, slay kings and queens. Go for it.

11 (27m 39s):
Alright, so let's get it straight. We're 62 hours away from shutting down the government of the United States of America and Republicans are launching an impeachment drive based on a long debunked and discredited lie.

12 (27m 53s):
What a day we are having here, isn't it? Right? I mean, listen, I, as a former director of emergency management, I know a disaster when I see one, and I

13 (28m 3s):
Wanna say thank you to Mr. Donald Trump for calling this hearing. Today we see the long arm beli hands of Mr. Donald Trump, whose fingerprints are all over this hearing and this sham impeachment

12 (28m 19s):
Donald Trump impeachments. Oh, how many Impeachments? We got two there. How many indictments we got four. How many for Biden? Zero. Zero. Donald Trump is right. I'm he's sick of winning. He's just winning, running away with it. And that's why we're here. They can't save Donald Trump. They can't take away the two impeachments and the four indictments, but they can try to put some numbers on the board for Joe Biden. But the problem is, when you sling mud, you gotta have mud. And they just don't have anything. Mr. Chairman, honestly, if they

14 (28m 50s):
Would continue to say,

0 (28m 51s):
What a clown for

14 (28m 51s):
A Hunter, and we were playing a drinking game, I would be drunk by now. If

11 (28m 54s):
The Republicans had a smoking gun or even a dripping water pistol, they would be presenting it today. But they've got nothing on Joe Biden, come

12 (29m 4s):
On. If you all think there's so much evidence we're here, call the vote on impeachment, impeach him right now. Well, first

0 (29m 12s):
Of all, that's, that's not, that's not what an inquiry is. Okay?

Genucel (29m 14s):
First of all, it's not what an inquiry is. But also guys go off, you know, go off. Really continue to talk about this because it's very, very good for Joe Biden's opposition in just one second. We'll get to the latest on the u a w. It turns out that when you incentivize unions to strike, they like to strike more. It's amazing how that works. First, as you might know, we are fans of our friends over at Genus Cell. You don't have to take my word for it. Ella from Rockford says, I have both age and acne spots. This stuff is actually fading both of them. This serum is worth every penny. Ella is raving about the famous dark spot corrector from genus cell. It must have, after months of record heat and humidity, sun spots, brown spots, discoloration, even red inflamed patches, all will disappear in front of your very eyes. Here's Genus Cell's amazing guarantee you'll see results on day one or your money back. Not only has Genus Cell been a longtime partner of the show, my family's been using Genus Cell itself for like a decade. Crazy, fast results. It, it really, really works. And that's the magic of Genucel because again, you're trying it completely risk-free. It's about 70% off right now. Take advantage of gen cell's most popular package. It now includes that dark spot corrector plus the classic Genucel bags and puffiness treatment. How? Well it's simple. Go to Genucel dot com slash Shapiro, start looking years, even decades at younger tomorrow. Say goodbye to those dark and liver spots. Bags in puffiness under the eyes crow's feet@genuscell.com slash Shapiro. That is genus cell.com/again, they've got an amazing guarantee results on day one, or you get your money back@genuscell.com slash Shapiro.

12 (30m 30s):
and so meanwhile, again, Joe Biden between his corrupt personality, the fact that he's in a state of physical and mental decay and his bad policy, he is a very vulnerable candidate.

0 (30m 40s):
The U aaw apparently is now threatening more strikes. Oh, that, that's, that's great. So you mean the president showed up, wore their hat, and now they're like, Hey, we got some Jews. Let's strike some more and wreck the economy. The U A W pledged to widen its strike on Friday. Barring significant progress in talks with Detroit car makers, as the companies take steps to keep critical parts flowing to their dealerships parallel talks between the U A W and GM Ford Motor and Chrysler parents STIs continued. A union officials said Wednesday, nearly two weeks into a limited strike at all three automakers, the U A W officials said, the union identify new strike targets at 10:00 AM Friday with walkouts to begin at noon unless bargainers make headway in negotiations for new four year contracts. Last week, the U AAW expanded that strike beyond three assembly plans to include a 38 part distribution centers owned by GM and STIs.

0 (31m 25s):
The union spared forward for more walkouts. They said they were getting more concessions from Ford, but the widening of the strike, why do you think they're doing that? They're doing that because the president of the United States literally showed up and walked the picket line with them wearing a u a w hat. That is why you end up with more strikes. So if they cut a really, really great sweetheart deal with all of these car companies and your car becomes wildly more expensive, you know exactly who to blame. His name rhymes with Joe. Biden. That's exactly who to blame. It turns out again than when the presidents of the United States endorses one side in a private labor action. It's very likely that that side is going to be incentivized to take a harder line position not to come to the negotiating table and bargain. Speaking of failures, the Ukraine war continues to slog on.

0 (32m 6s):
According to the New York Times. Literally no one has gained ground this year, although both sides have launched ambitious offensive, the frontline has barely shifted. After 18 months of war, a breakthrough looks more difficult than ever again. The frontline Ukraine basically changed, not at all from last winter. There's supposed to be a major Ukrainian offensive that was going to reverse Russian gains in the Don Bass in the Crimea region. Instead, the map looks pretty much the same despite nine months. Bloody fighting less than 500 square miles of territory have changed hand since the start of the year. And, and meanwhile, Joe Biden has no off ramp. He's provided no off ramp. He says The Zelensky is gonna do all the negotiating. We're just gonna keep signing checks. That is not the way this should work. That's not the way this should work. Everyone knows how this war ends. We've known him for a year. There was gonna be a negotiated settlement.

0 (32m 47s):
No one believes the Ukrainians are pushing the Russians all the way out of Crimea and all the way outta the donbas. There's been almost like zero territorial change. The last major territorial change was in November, December of last year. Otherwise no territorial change whatsoever. Since the st since the start of the year, Ukraine has gained about 143 square miles, and Russia has gained about 331 square miles. These are not major amounts of territory. And yet Joe Biden has no plans to end this war. It's just going to continue add infinitum, which presumably is why some other Democrats are starting to look around and go like, why isn't anyone jumping in on this guy? I mean, he's vulnerable on the Democrat. Like 70% of Democrats don't want him to run again.

0 (33m 27s):
One of the people who is now Delusively thinking about running for president is apparently chink uighur by myself have debated watch that on YouTube. It's fascinating stuff. Here is chink yesterday announcing that he might be staffing up for a 2024 primary run against Joe Biden

15 (33m 41s):
Crystal. We are definitely in a unsolvable riddle. Yeah. 'cause the corporate Democrats say, I will not disobey. I will always bow my head. Right? Right. And the progressives say, well, I can't run the mainstream. Media will destroy me. They'll destroy my life, they'll destroy my career, et cetera. Right, right. So how do we get past that? That's why I'm desperate enough to think maybe I should do it. And I'll tell you why. Because let's say that somebody like me gets in the race. Yeah. The Democratic voters are dying for an alternative. They keep saying every poll for God's sake, give us someone else. Give us someone else. If someone like me were to get to 20 points, do you have any idea how quick Newsom and Whitmer would enter the race?

0 (34m 23s):
And so that's Chk basically saying, I'll get in the race just to show that biden's vulnerable. And then you'll see some of the more serious candidates jump in. There's a reason that Democrats are hitting the panic button right now. And Chenk does not happen to be wrong. I mean, again, there, there's something tactical to what he's doing there. I i I think that it's a, it's a mission doom for failure. But he's saying it's a mission doomed for failure. It's kind of fascinating. Okay, in just one second, we'll get into the controversy of the day on the right side of the aisle.

ZipRecruiter (34m 47s):
First, it's time to give a shout out to the people whose job it is to hire from small business owners growing their teams to HR directors hiring hundreds across the nation. You have one of the toughest jobs out there, like Toby from the office. It's unappreciated. Hiring a good HR team. It's one of the most important things you can do, which is why we are so grateful that we have Sierra over here at DailyWire making sure that all HR procedures are followed. I mean, not, not that, not that HR at DailyWire has told me that I'm not allowed to roast my own employees on air before, and then I disobey them and it turns into a big internal fight. And, you know, Sierra's doing her best and everything and she has to listen to everybody complain all the time. But let's say that, that at a certain point we decide, you know what hr, we, we need, we, we just need some new people. Well, with ZipRecruiter, you can make your whole hiring process faster and easier. ZipRecruiter powerful technology works for you to identify people whose skills and experience match your job. ZipRecruiter saves you time by letting you easily invite your top candidates to apply to your job. So they're more likely to apply, apply sooner. ZipRecruiter is trusted by millions. In fact, over 3.8 million businesses have come to ZipRecruiter for their hiring needs. Hiring heroes. Let ZipRecruiter help you make your job easier. Four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter get a quality candidate within day one. Go to ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Try ZipRecruiter for FREE again, then ZipRecruiter dot com slash d iy, w i r e.

15 (35m 58s):
Also, who doesn't love a good Columbus Day sale, aside from the people who just hate Christopher Columbus? Well, we don't hate Christopher Columbus. Here at Jeremy's Razors. At Jeremy's Razors, we want you to discover the new world of woke free shaving. Get 20% off selected Jeremy's Razors products and bundles, including the Precision five starter kit, the founder's kit, the beard kit, the skincare bundle, and more. Be a pioneer for a better shave and better hygiene. Don't wait. Make the switch today. Get yours at jeremy's Razors dot com. Meanwhile, on the right, a fascinating debate has broken out about the value of marriage. It's, it's really interesting. So there are a bunch of people on these so-called red pilled, right, who have now suggested that marriage is bad for men, that men should not get married.

0 (36m 33s):
Now, the case that they're making is not the liberal feminist case. That basically men are useless and terrible and a woman needs a man like a fish, needs a bicycle or anything like that. The case that they are making is that the stakes of marriage have been changed by things like no fault divorce, custody arrangements, the child support payments, and all the rest spousal support that basically the legal regimen has made it not a bargain for men to get married. Now, I agree with, with the critique of all of those policies, I think no fault divorce is a disaster area. I think that the child custody arrangements, that that basically always go to mom, no matter what that is, that is a serious problem. When you shift the incentive structure. There's a reason why the majority of divorces, the vast majority of divorces, are now initiated by women.

0 (37m 15s):
That that is not, because in the past, women were, were wildly abused, and today they're wildly liberated. What that really is, is when you shift the incentive structure, and it turns out that all the risk is now taken by men. Women aren't gonna be the ones who actually activate and push that divorce button. However, the red pill have taken it one step further and now they're telling young men, you should not get married. It's too dangerous to get married. Don't get married. That's foolish. That's foolish. So let's, let's go through some of these arguments 'cause they become very popular on the right. So let's start with Pearl Davis. So Pearl Davis is an anti-feminist who has become pretty popular. He says a lot of people label her sort of a female Andrew Tate, although without the checkered past. And here is Pearl Davis talking about marriage,

16 (37m 57s):
The trad con's, DailyWire conservatives were are saying that pearl's just a doom and gloom who lies about stats, just focuses on the negatives, never the positives. And all the men complaining are just cry babies. and so one day he comes home and he finds out that his wife had called the police on him and told them that the first time they hooked up 10 years ago, he, he had quote unquote raped her. And the truth of the matter is, when a man has children, they're not his kids. A man has no way to have children.

16 (38m 39s):
And those kids be actually his, they're always hers because the courts give the women custody 90% of the time. And rich men are really the only ones that have the money to fight it and the time. So I, I ask The, Daily, Wire, Jeremy, Boeing, Matt Walsh, is this just cry babies? Are they just, are they just, they're cry baby weak men who don't man up and want to risk that. So, you know, it's interesting because instead of demanding that the laws change and demanding women face repercussions for doing this stuff, you guys demand that men need to step up and take part in a system that discriminates against 'em.

16 (39m 24s):
You say, oh, find a girl that prayed. She won't do it. But, and I had this thought too, until I found a Muslim girl that did the same thing. I found a Christian girl that did the same thing. I found a Catholic girl. It's happening all over. Whether you wanna believe it or not, it is happening. I don't care about your religion, I don't care about your church. This happens everywhere.

0 (39m 45s):
Okay? So the argument that she's making against it, all these marital policies, those are, those are correct arguments. And nobody is disregarding the pain of men who have been wrongfully victimized under these circumstances where the incentive structure is completely stacked against them. That is true. However, the benefits of marriage are still unbelievable. It does matter who you marry to pretend that there is no difference between the person that you marry, that it's happening with Christians and Muslims and, and it's all the same. That's statistically untrue. There are things that you can do to mitigate against the risk of divorce. And the person that you marry is the chief mitigation. The the truth is that in the Jewish community, we always have a backup plan in the sense that every marital contract is a prenup. Every marital contract is a prenup, right? A a Jewish katuba is a prenup.

0 (40m 26s):
It guarantees certain levels of spousal support. For example, if you, if you give a get, then it, it, it makes prior arrangements and all the rest. But one of the thi throwing out the baby with the bath water is not the solution. So how about both? How about we revise the system of law, but also in the meantime you do need to find a spousal and get married to her. And if what it requires for you to, to feel comfortable doing that is to shift away from the state mandated law toward a contract arrangement, then, then do that as well. Right? We can have churches that sponsor that sort of thing. Because the truth is that those are enforceable contracts in court very often, the custo pre custody arrangements and all the rest of that sort of thing. I wanna go through some of the stats with regard to the benefits of marriage because I think that it's also possible to exaggerate how bad things are for men.

0 (41m 10s):
That doesn't mean they aren't really bad for men who end up divorced or that women aren't divorcing men at an incredibly high rate overall, or the women aren't initiating the vast majority of diiv. Like again, I agree with many of the critiques of current marital law. I agree with a lot of that stuff. The problem is that when you take it so far that you say that the solution for men is to not get married. Now what you have done is you've created a second order of fact where unmarried men become actual menace, okay? The reality is that men channel their aggressive drives toward building or they channel it toward destroying and a system in which women are unmarried and men are un unmarried. That's something that the left wants. And if you acquiesce in that, then you actually end up destroying the very fundamental base of society that allows for the growing and building of a society beyond the leftist principles.

0 (41m 57s):
My my, my answer to pearl is both, and, but yes, get married and also we should work to change those laws. But by the way, the way that we date has a, has an effect on how we get married and who we get married to. I mean, when I dated my wife, we went in knowing as we began today that we weren't, we were not going to sleep together until we were married. We knew for a fact that we were going to have long conversations about things that mattered. And, and this is by the way, the, the best available data suggests that this is how you end up with a tangible, durable marriage that lasts a very long time, is that everybody has to be committed going in that value. When you put values at the center of dating, that obviously doesn't mean that you're going to be impervious to the possibility of divorce, but it does mean that your chance of divorce are really a lot lower, a lot lower.

0 (42m 40s):
Now, I don't wanna rip on parole here, and I don't think I am ripping on parole, frankly, but there, there, there are a bunch of other people who are making similar claims. So For example, Brian Atlas was on the whatever podcast, and, and here he was talking about marriage.

17 (42m 52s):
Would you consider a prenup?

18 (42m 53s):
Prenups are regularly thrown out all the time. They're typically non enforceable, especially the longer the marriage goes on, the less likely they are to be enforced. Men get absolutely destroyed in marriage. I agree. And then divorce financially when it comes to the kids, women are more likely to get custody. And then also if you do get a divorce, the financial cost of just getting the attorney, getting all that involved. If there, if it's a contested divorce or you're gonna spend mid five figures, six figures on, on attorneys, and you gotta pay for her attorney too. 50% of marriages end in divorce. 80% of divorces are initiated by women. 90% of she's college educated. 90% of child support payments go from men to women.

18 (43m 36s):
97% of alimony payments go from men to women. You know, you have no fault divorce. So a woman can cheat on you. She can still get half your shit.

0 (43m 44s):
Okay? Again, a lot of what he's saying is true. The stats on marriage are not completely true. I'll go through those in just one second. Again, the rip on on the divorce law is a good rip. It is a fine rip. And the answer is not for men to avoid marriage. The answer is for men to find a good woman to get married to who's committed to values. Yes, of course marriage is a risk. Of course it is. And that risk is disproportionately born by men. At, this point that is true also. But is the reward worth the risk? The answer in a huge majority of circumstances where both people are committed, like, say, have, share Christian values, For example, the ri the risk is, is worth it is, is the basic principle. And again, these arguments are made not just by people like this. Andrew Tate has made the the same sorts of, of arguments.

0 (44m 24s):
Here's Andrew Tate talking about how men don't benefit from marriage.

19 (44m 28s):
I think it's a fantastic environment and I think in an idealistic world, that's the way, the way it would be. I think the reason it's not happening today is that I don't think many men actually benefit from marriages or relationships anymore. And people are always gonna have to require some degree of incentive. I think that we've set up the world now in a way where men are seen as worker droids. They're expected to go work all day, come home clean up as well, share the cleaning with the woman, not have any, not no meal prepared for 'em, not have any authority over the household and just, and just be a worker droid and be a sad. And I don't think that many people understand that men are intrinsically wired to desire, respect amongst our peers and in our environments. This is why CEOs work so hard because they get respect in their company.

0 (45m 13s):
Okay. So again, I don't disagree with much of what you're saying, but the solution very often with the red pill kinda movement, the diagnosis is correct and the solution is wrong. That that, that happens very, very often in, in this sort of movement. The, the reason by the way that parole and the rest of the red pill movement think the way they do is because of arguments like the one that, that a person named Destiny makes with Pearl in this particular clip,

20 (45m 34s):
Women now earning men have a hard time respecting the men they're with.

21 (45m 37s):
That's not true.

22 (45m 38s):
That's not true. I read into that data and it explained why a lot of time the women reported that they were expected to be in charge of the household duties and still work a job. And they add to, oh,

20 (45m 50s):
Come on, what percent of modern women actually cook? I'm just saying this automated nowadays. I mean you have a washing machine, a dishwasher

22 (45m 57s):
Have to

21 (45m 58s):
You, but even but as much as it's, as much as it's automated, men still don't do it. Yeah. Still doing it. They still don't do it. That's, that's the issue is that of the, one of the big problems with assholes. but what that's a reason for divorce chores. It absolutely is a reason. Sure. When you get, when you get older and you manage a household on your own pearl, you'll see how annoying it is when you're working and then you come home and everything is been horrible and nobody's cleaning anything. Yeah, that is a totally valid reason for divorce. Of course chores

20 (46m 21s):
To break up a home, her family.

21 (46m 24s):
Have you lived in a fil home? But like, it's so funny because like lifelong friends from like grade school to high school will dorm in college and then hate each other forever over like bad dorm roommates and that's not even a relationship. So yeah, of course I think stuff like this is perfectly valid. I think, I think splitting up, splitting up splitt up duties in the household is like what are the most important parts of like a relationship because it's where you're spending most of the time together. This is why I say people get triggered when I say I don't think you're even dating until you live together. 'cause until you live together, you don't really know who the other person's like. And once you start living together and you see what the household duties are like, then you get a feel for what the relationship is.

0 (46m 54s):
So what destiny is saying here is totally crazy. Okay. The idea that you get divorced, let's say you have kids, you get divorced because you can't split up, who handles the dishwasher is nuts. And comparing marriage to roommates, college roommates, yes. Because you don't expect to be roommates with your roommate for the rest of your life and have children with them. Generally speaking, a marriage is not supposed to be a contractual arrangement that is purely about who shares household duties. It's supposed to be about building a household. So it it's that attitude toward divorce that is making the red pill crew basically say, okay, well if that's your version of marriage, then I'm not in. I agree. If that were my version of marriage, I would not be in. The point that I'm making is that that shouldn't be anybody's version of marriage, just like the current version of divorce shouldn't be anybody's version of divorce. And I wanna give you some stats that demonstrate that not all marriages are created equal.

0 (47m 35s):
Not all predicates for marriage are the same. So Brad Wilcox, who is a social science scholar on all of this, he has a book called Get Married and it's all about marriage and divorce. And here are some of the facts in that book that are well substantiated by by the data. The number one factor in predicting a high quality marriage is perceived partner commitment. If you believe that your partner is deeply committed to the marriage, you'll be deeply committed to the marriage, which is one of the reasons why it really matters. How you date it really, really matters how you date. So I agree that in a context where you're picking up a girl at a bar and then you live together and then you get married to her, that's a very risky situation. You put yourself in a situation that is very risky, but that is not how I've ever recommended dating. That is not ever how I've recommended getting married.

0 (48m 17s):
It's all part of a holistic view of how male female relationships work. If you just take marriage as an institution and you just throw it out there and however you date is supposed to be equivalent, that of course is not true. Women who attend church are 50% less likely to divorce. For example. So when you heard Pearl earlier talk about For example, I've seen Christian women die. I've seen Muslim. Yes, but the question is likelihood. And you can always find somebody in any group who does X, Y, or Z. The question is how often does that happen? How do you mitigate your risk? As far as the stat that 50% of marriages ended divorce just about 40% right now of first marriages ended divorce, which is way, way too high. It's also down significantly since the 1980s. But again, it's not equivalent between groups.

0 (48m 58s):
College educated parents, risk of divorce has fallen by about 25% since the 1970s. And here's a good stat, almost 90% of their children for college educated parents are being raised and married, largely intact families today. So it turns out that there is actually a formula to a successful marriage. It tends to be conservative, religious, highly educated tho those would be like the biggest, the biggest things that are going to affect whether you end up staying married or whether you end up divorced. By the way, another factor that ends up determining whether you stay married or end up divorced is again about the nature of the marriage. Do you have kids marriages with kids divorce far less often than marriages without kids.

0 (49m 39s):
In fact, the divorce rate for couples with kids is about 40% lower than the divorce rate for couples without kids, which makes sense because you have less investment once you have kids, then actually it damages another party for you to get divorced over the dishwasher and then, then, then somebody else pays for your crimes. At that point, 77% of college educated conservative parents are still in their first marriage. So are 70% of moderates and 68% of liberals. And again, the the number of newly divorced people per 1000 married Americans has declined pretty markedly since the eighties. It was 22.6 in 1980. It is 13.6 today in 2021. As far as the notion that it's like damaging financially for men who get married, no, it's, it's damaging for men to get divorced.

0 (50m 21s):
It's not damaging for men to get married. Married men in their thirties are about $95,000. If they're cohabiting, they're about $68,000. If they're single, single, they earn about $42,000. The average marriage premium in household assets is more than $290,000 for a stably married man. So again, I think what people are actually arguing about over here, to be fair to the red pill crew, I think what they're actually arguing about is divorce. And so the question is are you more likely to stay married or are you more likely to end up in a divorce situation? And that is a, a fair question depending on the process that you use for dating in the cultural milieu in which you live in, in the community where I live in Orthodox Jewish community, not a lot of divorce, like very, very low divorce rates.

0 (51m 1s):
Why? Well, because everyone is religiously committed because everybody goes into marriage believing it is a sacred bond that actually matters. 'cause people don't date for sex. People actually date looking forward to the day when they will have kids together because every family in my neighborhood has four plus kids, right? Tho those are the preconditions. But if the, if the idea here is that your, your, your basic binary is, are you gonna married or divorced? Divorced is is typically worse than never married and married is way better than both divorced and never married. And so yeah, it's a risk. But is it a coin flip? I don't think it's a coin flip. I think it is a, it is a decision that you have to make as to what kind of person you wish to date, how you wish date that person, what kind of relationship you wish to build, and how seriously you take that commitment in the first place.

0 (51m 47s):
Do the laws need to change? Absolutely. And they need to change. They're garbage. I totally agree with that. It is easy for men to be victimized under these circumstances. It's so easy that you should not enter the risk. Let's look at some of the upsides and the downsides. Here's the chart from Brad about opioid overdose deaths by gender, educational attainment and marital status. And what you see is that among men, if you are single never married, what you see is that the opioid overdoses per 100,000 age 25 plus it's like 25 for single never married men. It's even higher for divorced men. And it is extremely low for married men. Really, really low for married men. And again, that's the, that's, are you gonna be one of the people who has divorced or not?

0 (52m 28s):
One of the things you can know going in is you will never get divorced. And then you have to make sure that you marry a woman who will never gets divorced. And we can't pretend that, that the divorce sort of falls on you like reign from the heavens. That's not right. The person who's, this is why I give dating advice all the time. My number one dating advice, date for values, date for values. In the end, that's the only thing that's going to remain okay. Time for some things I like. So things that I, like today, the Senate has apparently now passed unanimously a dress code, a formal dress code because they had changed their rules that John Fetterman could dress like my seven-year-old son. And to be fair to my seven year old son, he dresses significantly better than John Fetterman, my seven year old son. Pretty tapper. John Fetterman looks like a schlub and a hobo.

0 (53m 11s):
Well, according to Axios, the Senate passed a resolution on Wednesday to make businesses hire a requirement on the Senate floor. The move came after backlash to Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer's directive to scuttle the chamber's informal dress code, which was widely viewed to be inspired by Senator John Federman. The bipartisan resolution requires that business attire be worn on the floor of the Senate, which for men shall include a coat tie and slacks or other long pants. Again, he had been, he'd shown up after going to the hospital for depression and he had presided over the Senate wearing a short sleeve shirt earlier this month. So Schumer said, quote, that we've never had an official dress code. The events over the past week have made us all feel as though formalizing one is the right path forward. I deeply appreciate Senator Federman working with me to come to an agreement that we all find acceptable.

0 (53m 51s):
And of course, I appreciate Senator Manchin and Senator Romney's leadership on this issue. I, I'm not sure why exactly this was necessary in the first place. Senator Federman for his part, who his, we always say he, he tweeted, but he never tweets, right? I mean, it's, it's his team tweeting for him tweeted out a meme of Kevin James in like schlubby attire, shrugging. It's just, and then he showed up to the Senate wearing a big boy suit. and so this is exciting news, right? He showed up wearing a suit and looking kind of, you know, bewildered by the whole thing. More like my, more like my baby than my three or seven year old giving a, a bizarre thumbs up. As he walked through the halls of the Senate, Chuck Schumer undoubtedly told him that he would take him to the ice cream truck and if he wore a suit.

0 (54m 39s):
and so John Federman put on a suit and then he also shaved so his his ever-changing facial hair Conti man. He, he is Mr. Potato Head. Mr. Potato Head over. It used to be Cory Booker. It is now John Federman. Okay, we're gonna skip some things I hate and we're gonna get into Elon Musk being sued again by the federal government. It's amazing how if you cross Joe Biden the federal government, magically you find yourself in the crosshairs. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.