Blue Nile (0s):
Why wait to see if you'll get something you like This Valentine's Day when you can go to blue nile.com and find something you'll love, whether you're looking to treat yourself to a little winter sparkle or show a gallatine how much you appreciate them. Blue Nile offers a wide selection of high quality designs, expert guidance, and free 30 day returns For the ultimate peace of mind. You can even design your own jewelry right now. Save up to 50 percent@bluenile.com. That's blue nile.com.

1 (31s):
Well folks, Elmo did it. He opened the Can of Worms, Elmo, you may know, as the red furry Muppet from Sesame Street. He made a big booboo yesterday. He went on the X, he went on Twitter's the X space and he, and he promptly tweeted. Elmo is just checking in. How is everybody doing? Oh no, the world Unleashed it's hell. Fire on with users from all across the political spectrum, immediately unloading on Elmo to tell him how disappointed, upset, and depressed they were. One user replied, Elmo, I'm suffering from existential dread over here. Another replied every morning, I cannot wait to go back to sleep every Monday.

1 (1m 12s):
I cannot wait for Friday to come every single day and every single week for life. Rachel Ziegler, who recalls the actress from Snow White, they had to reshoot it because she made obnoxious comments about how terrible Snow White was. She tweeted that she was quote, resisting the urge to tell Elmo that I'm kind of sad. Okay, so it was really funny, right? This was the thing that was going on all over X yesterday. And it's a funny joke. It's a funny joke because a Muppet asking how everybody is doing and then everybody responding that they're experiencing existential angst and upset is really funny. So Elmo then replied, quote, wow, Elmo is glad he asked. Elmo learned that it is important to ask a friend how they're doing. Elmo will check again soon.

1 (1m 51s):
Friends Elmo loves you hashtag emotional wellbeing. Okay, well, okay, that's, that's kind of a funny kind of not joke anymore. And then Joe Biden comes in from the wings with a chainsaw to massacre the joke. So Joe Biden tweets out quote, I know how hard it's some days to sweep the Clouds way and gets a sunnier days. Our friend Elmo is right. We have to be there for each other, offer our help to a neighbor in need and above all ask for help when we need it, even though it's hard, you're never alone. So here's my question today, what the hell happened to our sense of humor? Why can't we just laugh at this? It's really funny. Why can't we just laugh when Elmo asks Twitter how everyone is doing and people are answering with their suicidal thoughts?

1 (2m 34s):
That's funny. Okay. It's just funny. It's okay for us to laugh at things, but it seems as though in the country it's not okay to laugh at pretty much anything anymore. Comedy, I believe, really died during the Obama administration when pretty much all of our comedic leaders decided that the, they were actually politicians and Barack Obama was actually a celebrity. The complete merger of celebrity and politics that occurred when Barack Obama became president totally ate comedy because comedians decided that they were going to effectively become spokespeople for Barack Obama's administration. You'll recall Chris Rock suggesting that Barack Obama was like his father. He was like a, a father figure to all of us. You'll recall that there were comedians who are suggesting that it was impossible to make fun of Barack Obama because he just, there was nothing funny about the man, which of course is in and of itself pretty funny.

1 (3m 18s):
Barack Obama was a highly mock character. He thought that he was a transformative figure when in fact he was just kind of a corrupt Chicago politician with delusions of grandeur. But because comedy decided that it could not stay separate from politics, what that did is it totally undermined one of the common spaces that we have as a society. Comedy is a, is a space that we used to share as a society. And no matter where you were politically funny was funny. And that was the basic idea for decades in American life, it didn't matter where you were on the political spectrum. Richard Pryor was funny. It didn't matter where you were on the political spectrum. George Carlin was funny. Johnny Carson was funny. Jay Leno was funny. And then it turns out that as the social fabric breaks down, it is very difficult to laugh.

1 (4m 3s):
Laughter becomes incredibly difficult because If, you believe that the person who is making the joke is laughing at you. You are no longer laughing along and If. you believe that the person who is making the joke is actually not joking. That underneath that joke is a, is ire and rage and wrath. That's not funny either. Sadness, depression, anger. These are not emotions that can coexist with laughing at things. and we as a society, we're having kind a mental breakdown, you know, that that's actually what's happening right here because we should all be able to laugh at this thing. This is, and and this is one of the things that I found so kind of hilarious about the rap song that Tom McDonald's and I released, which is now number one worldwide on the iTune charts, the number one song on the planet that's hilarious.

1 (4m 48s):
I mean that's, that's like the best cultural troll of all time. and I don't mean to explain the joke guys, but look at me. I am not a rapper. I have no ambitions to be a rapper. In fact, if two weeks ago you had done a poll of people who knew even my name and asked what is the thing Ben sha put was least likely to do? It would probably be that song. That's why it's funny. And yet you are already starting to see people who are getting angry at the song. People who can't laugh at the very idea like it's, it's a joke. It's a jo. It's funny, again, I'm gonna chalk that up to the fact that social fabric is breaking down and that's having some really deleterious effects on all sides of the political aisle.

1 (5m 28s):
Like across the political aisle. For example, the the weird cultural breakdown that we are having now over like Taylor Swift, what the hell? Okay, Taylor Swift and Travis Kelsey, their romance basically being a, a plant by the NFL or by her stage managers or whatever is a funny idea. It's funny, okay, it's a joke. We can all laugh at that because Taylor Swift has spent her entire life in music doing songs about how she has a horrible history with men and breaking up with very famous people. And so if she really is in a sincere romance at this point, and we all wish the best for her, and that's fine. and by the way, if Taylor Swift actually does marry Travis Kelsey and they end up having babies, there will be a Taylor Swift baby boom because that's how stupid our culture is.

1 (6m 12s):
and we all take pop culture too seriously. So there'll be a bunch of 30-year-old women who suddenly decide that it's okay to put their feminist bonafides on the shelf and get married to a man and then have babies. If Taylor Swift decides that it's okay to do so and she stops acting like a 17-year-old girl in a 34-year-old woman's body. In any case, the whole shtick is really funny, right? That's why I've been making jokes about it. I've making jokes about it since the NFL started showing her up in the sky box and she was like, oh my God, I love football now. and I, it's just all ridiculous. It's super silly, but the joke can never just stay the joke because people hate each other too much. And so you can't even joke about like Taylor Swift. And so the politicization of Taylor Swift and Travis Kelsey is Amen. So I'll make a joke about Taylor Swift and Travis Kelsey or you will or someone else on the right wall and left will go 'cause you hate them, right?

1 (6m 56s):
'cause you hate them and think they're bad. No, because they're celebrities and celebrities are funny and the whole thing seems really stagey and maybe it's real. And again, if it is good for them. But I'm allowed to make a joke about Roger Godell assassinating Lamar Jackson to make sure that Travis Kelsey gets into the Super Bowl. So they get really high ratings as he proposes to Taylor Swift on one knee and then she rejects him and writes a breakup song like that's, that's okay. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Pure Talk (7m 20s):
First, if you're like me, there's not a day that goes by. You don't call or text someone you care about. My friends at Pure Talk are making it easier and more affordable to connect with the most important people in your life. Pure Talk gives you phenomenal coverage on America's most dependable 5G network. It's the same coverage you know and love, but for half the price of the other guys with unlimited plans starting just 20 bucks a month, the average family will save over a thousand dollars a year. I myself have been using Pure Talk for a couple of years now. They're great. Their coverage is excellent, and of course they don't hate our guts. A veteran owned company, Pure Talk will raise $10 million toward veterans debt last year alone. What's more Pure Talk's customer service team is located right here in the US and can help you make the switch in as little as 10 minutes. I challenge you to stand with the company that champions your values today. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro right now. You'll save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Save on wireless with a company you can be proud to spend your money with. Again, that's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Go check them out right now, Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro and save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage.

1 (8m 20s):
And then in response to people having no sense of humor, other people have no sense of humor in response to that, we now have members of like the Trump campaign who are reportedly angry about Taylor Swift because they're suggesting that Taylor Swift is like a plant. Like the CIA 20 years ago was like, we're gonna make Taylor Swift a star and you know what else we're gonna do? We're gonna craft an entire, an entire football league, and then we are going to, from youth breed, an incredibly talented tight end and then we are going to fix up these two in perfect alignment just in time to reelect a doddering old man Roomba. That is what we are going to do.

1 (8m 59s):
Like what? Why, why can't we guys? Let's just laugh. It's okay. It's okay to just laugh. Everything is funny, okay? Yes. Politics and life in general is tragic comedy, right? Politics is hysterically funny when viewed from lum one lens and then deeply tragic when viewed from another because politics can have such an impact on all of our lives. But If, you lose the comedy that really is not because this isn't funny stuff. You're losing the comedy because you don't like the people who are around you. You don't like the country you're in, you don't like the people who are existing all like, this may be the funniest time in the history of American politics. Just on a raw level. This thing is fricking hysterical. I'm sorry. Just like I'm gonna, it's all very serious and we're gonna get to the serious issues in a moment.

1 (9m 41s):
But I'd like to say that it's okay for everybody to lighten up and laugh a little bit, okay? We have Donald Trump, who's a real estate magnate, who's president of the United States once and is a standup insult comic running against a vegetable. And in the middle of this, we have projected all of this onto a football star dating a pop star in the middle of the NFL playoffs and pretending this has world historical importance, which it does not the New York Times, by the way, jumping all over this, the culmination surrounding the world's biggest pop icon and girlfriend of Travis Kelsey, the chief star tight end, reached the stratosphere after Kansas City, made it to the Super Bowl for the fourth time in five years, and the first time since Ms. Swift joined the team's entourage, the conspiracy theories coming outta the Make America great again contingent.

1 (10m 24s):
Were already Legion that Ms. Swift is a secret agent of the Pentagon and she's bolstering her fan base in preparation for endorsement of President Biden's reelect or that she and Mr. Kelsey are a contrived couple assembled to boost the NFL or Covid vaccines or Democrats or whatever. Okay, that last one I kind of, that that might be right, the the contrived couple part because again, Taylor Swift has sort of a history with this stuff. Apparently this has now taken the form there. There again, you, you always have to doubt these sort of anonymous reports, especially from Rolling Stone, which is not a credible source, but again, for the humor effect of it, I'm just gonna read it because it's, it's kind of hysterically funny. According to three people familiar with the matter, Trump loyalists working on or close to the former president's campaign, longtime Trump allies and right wing media and an array of outside advisors to the ex-president have long taken it as a given that Swift will eventually endorse Biden.

1 (11m 11s):
But apparently members of Magdalene's upper crust are plotting to declare a Holy War on the pop megastar, especially if she ends up publicly backing the Democrats in the 2024 election. Behind the scenes, Trump has reacted to the possibility of Biden and Swift teaming up against him this year, not with alarm, both an instant projection of ego in recent weeks. The former president has told people in his orbit that no amount of a-list celebrity endorsements will save Biden. That of course is true. Trump has also privately claimed he's more popular than Taylor Swift. Okay? That part might be true. And if so, that's really funny. That's like super funny. So again guys, maybe the predicate to us rebuilding a social fabric in this country is to be able to laugh at funny things. But here's the thing, nobody's laughing and that by the way, is one of the reasons why Joe Biden is down in the dumps as the social fabric breaks down.

1 (11m 57s):
Joe Biden doing the trust me routine when it comes to politics no longer helps. It no longer helps comedy requires trust and so does political success, and Joe Biden does not have trust right now. So comedy is on. And so by the way, our Joe Biden's 2024 prospects, there is a tough new swing state poll out for Joe Biden from Business Insider or or Bloomberg Business Rather, and Mourning at Consult that shows in the swing states Donald Trump is now up 48 to 42. 48 to 42. That is a big lead. The percentage of voters saying that immigration is their top issue, when up in six of the seven states, 61% of voters blame Joe Biden for the border crisis. Only 38% say Republicans in Congress.

1 (12m 38s):
These are bad numbers for Joe Biden, like truly bad numbers. That same poll, again, this is a swing state poll. These are the states that matter because who cares what people in California think that state's already a foregone conclusion? Who cares what Alabama thinks already a foregone conclusion. It's the swing states that matter. Basically this election is gonna come down to three states as it usually does. Those three states, Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, that's what it's gonna come down to. Donald Trump is going to win Arizona. Donald Trump is going to win Georgia. The other states, Michigan, right now he's in the lead Pennsylvania. He is trailing Wisconsin. It's an Ed dies. This is gonna be a very tight election. Anybody who thinks it's gonna be a blowout right now, the evidence is just not there for it. But the fact that it's tight is almost solely due to the fact that Joe Biden is a deeply unpopular president who has breached trust with Americans.

1 (13m 23s):
We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Blinds.com (13m 25s):
First window treatments can make an enormous difference in your home or office. Here in Florida it gets very, very hot when the sun comes glaring through the windows, which is why we got our blinds from blinds.com to help keep us cool throughout those hot summer months. You can do the same with over 40,005 star reviews. blinds.com is the number one online retailer of custom window coverings. It can measure and install them yourself or have blinds.com send local professionals to take care of the installation for you. There's no showroom, no retail markets, no matter how many you order. Installation is just one low cost If you don't have an eye. For Design blinds.com experts are always available to help choose the style and color that's right for you. Everything they sell is covered by their perfect fit and 100% satisfaction guarantee with hundreds of styles and colors to choose from. blinds.com is sure to have the perfect treatments for your windows shop blinds.com. Right now save up to 45% off. Get up to 45% off for a limited time@blinds.com. When you check out online, don't forget to tell them you heard about blinds.com from The Ben Shapiro Show Rules and restrictions may apply. Go check them out right now.

1 (14m 23s):
Right now, this poll shows that in the swing states, would you say the economy is going in the right direction or going in the wrong direction for the country? Wrong track, 71%, only 29% think the economy is going in the right direction. Generally speaking, would you say the economy in each of the following places is going in the right direction or in the wrong direction? Your city or town, right? Direction, 52%. Wrong track, 48%. So what does that mean? That means that people kind of are okay with their local governance, but they're really unhappy with the national governance. Joe Biden's favorability rating in this poll in the swing states is currently at 38%. That is not a reelect number. That is not even remotely a reelect number.

1 (15m 5s):
Donald Trump, by the way, is currently at a 46% approval rating, okay? Which is higher than Joe Biden in these swing states. So Joe Biden has a lot of problems and he's exacerbating those problems with bad governance, which of course is why the border continues to matter.

Daily Wire Plus (15m 25s):
Joe Biden continues to try it out there and suggest that the border of crisis, which continues to, to simmer, but that border crisis is about him not being given enough power, which of course is not true because that Border crisis did not exist while Donald Trump was president. And then Joe Biden came in, as we've explained many times, and as we explained in our new Border documentary available over a Daily, Wire Plus,

1 (15m 43s):
Joe Biden has the executive authority to basically prevent the border from collapsing the way that it has. But Joe Biden is still trying to blame it on Republicans as though he needs to be given legislative power in order to do things. By the way, it's an amazing statement coming from the same president who has declared the unilateral executive ability to relieve student loan debt and force you to get a vaccine. Those are all things that Joe Biden says he can do with presidential power. But the one thing he can't do apparently is close the border, which is a specifically delegated power that he already has legal authority, NA legal obligation to fulfill here was Joe Biden telling a lie.

2 (16m 18s):
Have you done everything you can do with executive authority with the more you could do after done? All I can do, gimme the power. I've asked the very day, I gotta oath. Gimme the border patrol, gimme the people, gimme the people to judge. Gimme the people who can stop this, make it worse rest,

1 (16m 39s):
Okay? That that is not true. He has the power, he could do it literally right now, but he's not and everyone knows it, which is why his border numbers are absolutely horrifying. Now, Democrats are trying to make the claim that it's Republicans who are holding up more Border power for Joe Biden and it's not working particularly well. They're attempting to blame Donald Trump for it. They're trying to say that Trump is scuttling what would be an amazing border deal. Now here's the thing, I can't analyze the border deal because I haven't seen the Border deal, have you? You haven't. Correct? Because no one has. So how do you expect me to say whether the border deal is good or bad? It could be worse than the status quo if Joe Biden would just enforce a law, right? Perhaps the proper Republican play in the face of a bad deal is to walk away from the table and say that Joe Biden needs to enforce the laws that are currently on the books.

1 (17m 23s):
That seems to be the current Republican play. Democrats are trying to claim that that's a Trump thing. That is not a Trump thing. If the border bill that's on the table is bad, then it's bad and you can't expect there. There are a bunch of senators who, frankly I, I kind of like, right? The Senator Kevin Kramer of North Dakota, for example. Good Senator Senator James Langford of Oklahoma, good senator on many issues. They keep saying things like, well, we need this border deal. I don't know whether we need it until I see it, I can, again, trust has been violated, trust has been broken. I have no clue whether the border deal that you want Joe Biden to sign is good or whether it is bad. So Republicans out there trying to stump for a border deal that no one has seen, that's not gonna make a lot of headway, which is why presumably speaker Mike Johnson is saying, listen, we're not stopping the border deal to help Trump.

1 (18m 12s):
I have a majority in the house of like three seats, right? That, that, that Republican majority is extremely slim. And he says, I'm not going to bring a bill up that is going to get immediately rejected. We already proposed one. It's called HR two. It's a good bill. Just pass it. Here's the speaker of the house. Mike Johnson,

3 (18m 28s):
The former president, has made it clear that he doesn't want you guys to move forward on this. And judging by his comments, he clearly wants to campaign on this issue. Have you spoken to him about the Senate proposal and are you simply trying to kill this to help him on the

4 (18m 43s):
Campaign? No, Manu, that's absurd. We have a responsibility here to do our duty. Our duty is to do right by the American people to protect the people. The first and most important job of the federal government is protected citizens. We're not doing that under President Biden. We are, we have only a tiny, as, you know, razor thin, actually a one vote majority right now in the house. Our, our majority is small, we only have it in one chamber, but we're trying to, to use every ounce of leverage that we have to make sure that this issue is addressed. I have talked to, to the former President Trump a about this issue at length and, and he understands that he understands that we have a responsibility to do here. The president, of course, president Trump wants to secure the country.

1 (19m 25s):
Again, the polls are against Joe Biden here, which is why you're not seeing Republicans give ground to Joe Biden and they should not give ground to Joe Biden. Meanwhile, Democrats are busy in the house trying to defend Alejandro Mayorca, the Secretary of Homeland Security, who keeps declaring that the border is in fact secure and is not in fact open. When in reality the catch and release policy pursued by this administration means that the border is effectively open. So Republicans have been pursuing an impeachment of Alejandro Mayorkas. Here was Representative Mark Green saying that Mayorkas has no respect for the law. Now, does that amount to a high crime or misdemeanor mean there no crime is really alleged? My general view of impeachment is that you should allege a crime however Democrats did impeach Donald Trump twice without actively alleging a crime.

1 (20m 6s):
So there is that. So if we're just gonna use impeachment as a political tool, it's good for the goose is good for the gander, and Alejandro Mayorca is absolutely not fulfilling his constitutional oath to uphold the law.

5 (20m 17s):
Today is a grave day. We have not approached this day or this process lightly. Secretary, mayor Marcus' actions have forced our hand. We cannot allow this border crisis to continue. We cannot allow Fentanyl to flood across our border, our criminals to waltz in undeterred, and we cannot allow a cabinet secretary with no regard for the separation of powers, of the rule of law to remain in office. That is why today we present this committee with the articles of Impeachment against Secretary Alejandro Maki.

1 (20m 45s):
Meanwhile of have representative Dan Goldman, who, who was first and foremost on the Trump impeachment train, and this, this guy actively participated in the Trump impeachment, both of them actually, and he says it's demeaning to the institution to impeach Mayorca. I'm sorry. I think we're well beyond the demeaning of Congress.

6 (21m 1s):
What you are upset about is that Secretary Mayorkas rescinded prior executive orders that were working and you have a right to be upset about that, and you have a right to talk about that. And you have a right to express your dissatisfaction in any way you, you choose. And you have a right to make that case to the American people so that they vote Secretary Mayorkas and this and this president out of office in November, if that's ultimately what the people believe. But you do not have a right to demean this institution to bastardize the impeachment clause of the Constitution, to belittle the standard of constitutional impeachment to such a degree that you can't even produce a legal memo in support of your articles of impeachment that do not exist in history and do not exist in the law.

1 (21m 57s):
Okay, a again, you invoking the law when you literally did not even allege crimes against Donald Trump before. Impeaching him twice is a pretty astonishing display of hypocrisy. The border issue is cutting against Joe Biden bottom line, we'll get to more on this in just one second.

Beam (22m 12s):
First, are you having trouble sleeping or staying asleep? Is poor sleep negatively impacting your life? If so, you need to check out Beam beams. Dream Powder contains a powerful all natural blend of ingredients, including magnesium, l-theanine. It's not just a run-of-the-Mill sleep aid. It's a concoction carefully crafted to help you slip into the sweet embrace of rest without the grogginess that often accompanies other sleep remedies. Sleep is the foundation of our mental and physical health. You have to have a consistent nighttime routine to function at your best. Today, my Listeners get a special Discount on Beam's Dream powder, their bestselling hot cocoa for sleep with no added sugar. Now available in delicious flavors like cinnamon, cocoa, chocolate, peanut butter, and mint chip. Better Sleep has never tasted better. My team loves Beam Dream. When you work your employees as hard as we do here, it's important they get enough sleep at night so they can function at their best every single day. Some of them use it every night. It puts you to sleep fast, the ingredients aren't worrisome and you're not gonna wake up tired. Just mix beam dream into hot water or milk stir or froth and enjoy before bedtime. If, you wanna try beam's. Bestselling Dream powder, take advantage of their 40% off sale for a limited time. When you go to shop beam.com/ Ben, use code Ben and checkout, that's shop b bm.com/ Ben with my promo code Ben for up to 40% off your order.

1 (23m 21s):
The other issues are also cutting against Joe Biden. The situation in Iran continues to bubble. It continues to be really bad there. There have been 165 attacks on American troops between October 17th and January 29th, ranging from Syria to Iraq to Jordan to the Red Sea, obviously. And Joe Biden really has no plans to do anything about it. Now, you wanna make the case that we don't need for deployment of all of these troops in these places. That's fine. I'm open to that argument. I'm open to the idea that we don't actually need as many bases as we have currently in, for example, Syria, and we don't need as many bases as we currently have in Iraq. But If, you are going to have troops on the ground.

1 (24m 2s):
You defend the troops that you have on the ground. That's the way that it works. And then the other half of that equation is you allow America's allies to do the work that you are not capable of doing because you don't have the boots on the ground, the intelligence gathering, the terrorist fighting. You allow Saudi to go after the Houthis in Yemen. You allow Israel to go after Hezbollah, you'll you take the chains off of all of your allies and allow them to do the dirty work that you yourself do not want to do. That would be a a rational foreign policy. Joe Biden has decided to do the opposite of both of those. We're gonna forward, deploy a bunch of truths, but not defend them, and we're going to hamstring our allies in their pursuit of terrorism. That that's, that's apparently Joe Biden's plan now. He just keeps over and over and over kind of telegraphing exactly what he says he's going to do.

1 (24m 42s):
So yesterday he said, I've decided what I'm gonna do. Well, why don't you just do it. I don't understand, like, is it, do you get points for like calling your shot? This is Babe Ruth at the World Series. Oh, yeah. I don't know what I'm gonna do now. Good for you, dude. Maybe you should just do it and not tell anyone. Are there any more punches that you'd love to telegraph? Apparently he told the press that he holds Iran responsible in the sense that they're supplying the weapons to the people who did it. Okay, thank you for that vague formulation. President Biden, here we go.

2 (25m 14s):
I,

7 (25m 19s):
I do hold Pon responsible the sense that they're supplying the weapons to the people who,

1 (25m 25s):
All righty. Well, I'm just going to point out right now that your sense of responsibility has amounted to nothing so far. All you have done is exacerbated the problems with Iran. They continue to get more aggressive because you're doing nothing. Senator to Tom Cotton, who of course if I'm a member of the military from Arkansas. He says the the way that you actually do deterrence is through, you know, deterring people. I know it's super complicated.

8 (25m 49s):
I've laid out the scenarios. Which option do we choose,

10 (25m 54s):
Bill? You laid out four options for how we could retaliate against Iran. I'd add a fifth, which is all of the above. There has to be devastating military retaliation for the targeting of American troops in Jordan, a friendly nation across international borders, leaving three dead Americans and more than three dozen wounded. And some of those bill are in grave critical condition as well. This is not an anomaly for Iran, this is what they've been doing for 45 years, but they have amped it up under Joe Biden beforehand, Barack Obama, because they're the Obama Biden foreign policy has been one of appeasement and conciliation. We have to totally reverse that policy, starting with retaliatory strikes right now and continuing beyond that to ensure that we're no longer trying to bribe the Atos with billions of dollars.

10 (26m 43s):
We're not looking the other way whenever they cheat on sanctions, and we're certainly not gonna tolerate even the slightest provocation against our troops in the Middle East. Anything el else, we'll simply invite more attacks.

1 (26m 56s):
And by the way, I agree and so does Tom Cotton with Donald Trump. Donald Trump's policy was that after a US airbase in Iraq was attacked by Iranian proxy forces. In late 2019, early 2020, Donald Trump killed Q Soleimani, the top KUDs force, Iranian terror official. He killed him while he was in Iraq and Iran vowed massive retaliation and did nothing because it turns out, you know what, Iran doesn't like getting punched directly in the face. They do not like it at all. As I've been saying for quite a while here, it turns out that deterrence requires you to deter. Meanwhile, Joe Biden is resting his campaign on the supposed evils of Donald Trump. And a lot of that is predicated on the legal charges. And honestly, the more the headlines appear about Donald Trump's legal charges, the less effect they're going to have.

1 (27m 37s):
Say, well, he is facing four cases with 91 charges. That looks like political prosecution. I'm sorry. That is what it looks like. And it looks particularly like political prosecution when several of these cases are clearly trumped up or falling apart. The January 6th case in Washington DC is a stretch of the law every which way. The Fannie Willis case in Georgia is in attention seeking ploy by Fannie Willis in a, in a legal stretch of Ricoh that doesn't even really allege the underlying organization to do the crime, which is what you require for a Ricoh charge. Not only that, Fannie Willis is now caught up in her own scandal because it turns out that she hired as a prosecutor, a person with no prosecutorial experience, who she happens to be tripping right now. So that that that turns out to be and then paid him a bunch of taxpayer dollars and went on cruises with them.

1 (28m 19s):
So that happens to be really awkward. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

ZipRecruiter (28m 23s):
First, our friends at ZipRecruiter conducted a recent survey and found the top hiring challenge. Employers Face 4 20 24 is not enough qualified candidates, but if you're an employer and you need to hire, the good news is ZipRecruiter has smart tools and features that help you find more qualified candidates quickly. And right now you can try it for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. As soon as you post your job. ZipRecruiter's powerful matching technology shows you candidates whose skills and experience will match what you're looking for. ZipRecruiter has an invite to apply feature so you can actually send top candidates a personalized invite to encourage them to respond to your job post. When you use ZipRecruiter's rating tool, they'll send you more matches from new profiles that are created on the side. Let ZipRecruiter help you conquer the biggest hiring challenge of finding qualified candidates. See why four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter get a quality candidate within the very first day? Just go to this exclusive web address right now, Try ZipRecruiter for FREE ZipRecruiter dot com slash Daily Wire. Again, that is ZipRecruiter dot com slash D-A-I-Y-W-I-R-E ZipRecruiter dot com slash Daily. Wire ZipRecruiter is indeed the smartest way to hire. Go check them out right now.

1 (29m 26s):
The only case that has any sort of merit at all is the classified docs case down in Florida. And in that case, Donald Trump can just point at Hillary Clinton. Politically speaking, all this looks like political persecute. Not only that, it looks thoroughly like this. DOJ is a political tool of the Biden administration. The most obvious and insane case of this is the charging of pro-life demonstrators over their blocking of an entry to a Tennessee abortion facility in 2021. So here's film of what it looked like when these supposedly evil, violent, terrible people were outside an abortion facility in Tennessee in 2021, they're being charged with charges that would give them up to 11 years in prison.

1 (30m 8s):
They were accused by the Department of Justice of violating the so-called Face Act and Civil Rights Conspiracy violation of people's Civil rights for a protest that took place in a hallway outside of a Mount Juliet abortion provider. March 5th, 2021. As you'll see, this group of demonstrators gathered on a second floor of an office building in the hallway outside the Carum Health Center clinic. The group prayed and sang hymns and urged women showing up to the clinic not to get abortions. Here's what that looked like.

1 (30m 54s):
Oh man, this is so threatening and violent. Wow.

11 (30m 57s):
Wow.

1 (30m 59s):
Frightening, terrifying stuff here. Absolutely terrifying. The verdict was delivered on the fifth day of the trial, which took place in Nashville. One of the government's key witnesses was Caroline Davis, a woman who was arrested with the group at Care fm. During her testimony, Davis claims she had a change of heart about attending the protest and that her rational side was in the toilet at the time of her participation. She said that she changed her mind over time, that being indicted by the federal government terrified her. Apparently some people talked to the police. One video showed one participant telling another to speak in love to a man with his girlfriend who'd shown up and then someone's baby was a gift from God. And so now these people are gonna face 11 years in prison for all of this, for this, for this brutal, violent, terrible activity.

1 (31m 43s):
Steve Crampton, who's Thomas Moore Society, senior counsel and attorney for one of the people charged, said quote, we're disappointed with the outcome. This is a peaceful demonstration by entirely peaceful citizens, filled with prayer, hymn, singing and worship, oriented toward persuading, expecting mothers not to abort their babies. Unfortunately, the Biden Department of Justice decided to characterize these peaceful actions as a felony conspiracy against rights to intimidate and punish the people charged and other pro-life people and people of faith. Crampton suggested the Biden's do j's pattern of arresting and prosecuting peaceful pro-life advocates is disturbing. And of course that's true. Remember, this is the same administration that basically decided not to charge huge numbers of people who were involved in the Black Lives Matter riots that did $2 billion in damage in 2020.

1 (32m 27s):
This is the same administration that is basically decided to facilitate shutting down of highways. I mean, the Democratic party has, has absolutely in major city facilitated the shutdown of airports, the shutdown of highways by protestors who then sometimes assault the police. But these anti-abortion protesters sitting in a hallway and singing, that's the violent stuff. That's the truly threatening, horrifying, terrible stuff. You wonder why so many Republicans and so many people generally are like this Biden DOJ, like if they're indicting Trump, okay, like, are we supposed to take that super seriously? This DOJ, the same DOJ that says that this sort of activity, IE standing outside an abortion clinic and non-violently singing hymns that deserves 11 years in prison.

1 (33m 10s):
Or if you're grandma and you walked through the Capitol building on January 6th, you're not one of the people who's violent. You're not one of the people assaulting a police officer, you're just grandma and you are stupidly walking through the Capitol building on January 6th. We'll track you down and we will put you in jail and we'll put you in jail for as long as humanly possible because obviously you are an insurrectionist like this. DOJ is the one that ought to be trusted in going after Donald Trump, I think not. Meanwhile, speaking of people who ought to be prosecuted, it turns out that the Squad, the Hamas Squad, you know, the, the, the radicals in Congress we're talking about all the best people, the people, the media love, the people they put on the cover of Rolling Stone Magazine with Nancy Pelosi. It turns out that pretty much all of them have now been embroiled by either controversy or or actual outright criminal activity.

1 (33m 54s):
We'll get to that in just one moment.

Bentkey (33m 55s):
First guys, this is a no-brainer If. you wanna protect your kids from left wing indoctrination that is rampant in the mainstream media. Here's how you do it. You start a 14 day free trial to Bentkey. It's the new Kids Entertainment app from The Daily. Wire Bentkey is the only streaming app that offers high quality, family friendly shows that reflect your values. Bentkey features amazing characters, timeless stories that'll spark your kids' imagination and curiosity. With hundreds of episodes your kids will love and you can trust. I trust my kids with Bentkey and it's really great. The material's great, my kids love it. They watch it and it's safe. I know because we cultivated it. You can try Bentkey for free for 14 days right now, no catch, no gimmick, no hidden fees, just awesome content your kids will love and you can trust. All you have to do is use code Unlock at Bentkey dot com. You'll get 14 days of unlimited access to Bent Key's, world of adventure. Go to Bentkey dot com right now, use code Unlock at signup to start your trial today.

1 (34m 42s):
Okay, meanwhile, the Hamas Squad the radicals in Congress. They're having themselves quite a week here. So it now emerges that Congresswoman Cory Bush is under investigation for alleged misuse of security funds. You'll remember Cory Bush from pretty much every radical rally claiming America's a deeply racist, terrible place that we ought to defund the police. While simultaneously, by the way, she was claiming that pretty much everybody needed to pay for her security. Well now the DOJ is investigating Cory Bush. This may be the only good thing the DOJ is doing right now for allegedly misusing money intended for members of Congress and candidates to spend on private security. The scope of the investigation and allegations of wrongdoing were not immediately known. But in recent months, investigators have contacted multiple current and former staffers according to the Washington Post inquiring about the congresswoman's campaign spending.

1 (35m 29s):
Apparently this has to do with her paying all of her friends and calling them security. She came under fire for using campaign money to hire her husband Courtney Merri as her security. But the Office of Congressional Ethics dismissed a complaint filed against Bush last fall alleging that her campaign's Employment of Merit was a violation of federal election law. She paid him over a hundred thousand dollars between 2022 and 2023, despite the fact that Merits had no private security license in either St. Louis or Washington dc And that of course is not the only member of security that she has, that she has put on payroll who really has very little to do with security as the and recur of the Washington free Beacon reported back in March of last year, one of the people working for her, her close friend and highest paid private security guard is a guy named Nathaniel Davis iii, who claims he can summon tornadoes at, will cause earthquakes with his hate and conduct blood rituals to bring ruin upon his enemies.

1 (36m 21s):
Which by the way, awesome set of skills. First of all, you should get paid way more than you're getting paid If. you can actually do those things. That is, that is some awesome stuff right there. and by the way, anybody who can prove that they can do these things, we have a slot open for you right here at The Daily Wire perfectly happy to carve out a salaried position for anyone who can summon tornadoes at will cause earthquakes with your hate and conduct blood rituals to bring ruin upon your enemies. Apparently he's an intergalactic master of psychic self-defense born 109 trillion years ago, which is wild. So he's older than the universe by like in order of magnitude. His days he says are now spent tending to his crops in spreading anti-Semitic conspiracies, which may, I guess that makes sense.

1 (37m 1s):
I mean that that is a, that is a dude that you should pay for your security if you're Cory Bush. So she then claims obviously that it's because Republicans are racist, that she's being targeted. The beautiful thing about being member of the diverse Squad is that you basically get to claim that everything is about racism.

12 (37m 18s):
Since before I was sworn into office, I have endured relentless threats to my physical safety and life as a rank and file member of Congress. I am not entitled to personal protection by the house and instead have used campaign funds as permissible to retain security services. I have not used any federal tax dollars for personal security services. Any reporting that I have used funds for personal security, for personal security is simply false. In recent months, right wing organizations have lodged baseless complaints against me, peddling notions that I have misused campaign funds to pay for personal security services.

12 (38m 0s):
That simply is not true.

1 (38m 2s):
Oh, right wing forces, it's always the right wing forces. I have flashbacks to when Cory Bush suggested that nobody should be defended except for Cory Bush here. She was talking about how she pays her private security, but you should not have police to defend you.

12 (38m 14s):
I'm gonna make sure I have security because I know I have had attempts on my life and I have too much work to do. There are too many people that need help right now for me to to allow that. So if I end up spending 200,000, if I spend 10, 10, 10 more dollars on it, you know what? I get to be here to do the work. So suck it up and defunding the police has to happen.

1 (38m 36s):
Oh my gosh, have that lady made into Congress and we only get the representatives we deserve. When I said before that that politics is high comedy, it really, really is. Now that is only one member of the Squad having a really bad week. Another member of the Squad having a super bad week is Ilhan Omar. So Ilhan Omar apparently was giving a speech at some sort of event for local Somalis and during the speech she said some things, I'm gonna play a little bit of the clip. It's in Somali. I don't speak Somali obviously. She claimed that the transcription of the speech, the translation here in the clip that went viral was off. So we here at Daily Wire, we actually went to a translation service and paid ourselves to have it translated.

1 (39m 17s):
and I'm gonna read you the transcript of the relevant portion of what she said because it's absolutely wild and pretty certainly violates her oath of office. Here is Ilhan Omar, the worst person in the American Congress,

13 (39m 31s):
Haddi and,

1 (39m 45s):
Okay, so I'm gonna read you our transcript that we got from an actual translation service because again, I wanna make sure that we're accurate in our representation of what Ilhan Omar actually said here. Here is the full translation of the segment of the clip that has been going viral on Acts quote. We are Somalis, we are people who love each other. We might talk behind each other's backs at times, but we are people who count on each other as brothers or sisters and know that they are Muslims and Somalis. We are people who help each other and others as well and take sides with each other. A few days ago we heard the news about some people claiming to be Somalis getting into an agreement with Ethiopia. Here she's talking about a breakaway portion of Somalia that is called Somali land. It's effectively been for the last 30 years a self-governing entity because Somalia is a disaster zone and Somalia land is actually pretty pro western Somaliland happens to be Democratic.

1 (40m 29s):
It's kind of free market oriented. And there's been a lot of talk for a long time about Somaliland actually declaring independence and being given breakaway status. The US government so far has not done that. There's a strong case to be made that that actually should happen. She of course, opposes because as we'll see, she describes her own allegiance to Somalia. She says, I'm embracing the fact that Mohamad no knows more Somalia than I do. I got calls from a lot of people saying, Ilhan, you need to talk to the US government. What is the government of the US doing? My answer to their question was that the US government will do what we tell them to do about it. What now the US government will do what we tell them to do. That would be like the plural we of what she has already described. I mean, this are her words, right? Somalis and Muslims, they, the US government will do what we tell them to do about it.

1 (41m 14s):
I mean like whatever conspiratorial nightmare BA she has put out there about Jews, she obviously engages in exactly that same kind of language with regard to her areas of orientation. And she says, oh, the Jews are like a hardcore group of people who control the American government. Also, we control the American government. Okay lady. She says, we need to be confident in ourselves. We live in this country. It is the country we pay tax to. It is the country that one of your daughters is in. As long as I'm in the US Congress, no one will take away in the Somali sea or water and I will not support the US government in supporting other people who rob us. Again, the first person plural here is pretty wild, right? Who rob the US government as opposed to us rob us.

1 (41m 54s):
Now, she's not a she, she, she's a naturalized citizen of the United States. She's a member of Congress. Like she, she's not a member of the Somali political regime, but she talks like she is. She says, the lady who sends to Congress knows about you and she feels our interest like you all do to President Hassan Sheikh. We are happy about you and the good job you have done. Thank you Mr. President, for reminding everyone that even if Somali is in crisis, we are people of talent who know their country and whose country cannot be put in danger. I want to congratulate the Somalis in Minnesota and the Somalis everywhere on how you are all united and how you supported our president who needs our support.

1 (42m 34s):
The president of the United States is Joe Biden. I'm just gonna point that out as a Republican. The president of the United States is in fact Joe Biden. He is my president because he's the president of the United States and I'm an American. Like that's, that's an amazing statement from Ilhan Omar. So people have talked about denaturalizing, deporting and all the rest. That's a pretty hard thing to do in the United States. There's a lot of free speech rights that attach to being an American citizen, even if you're saying a bunch of nonsense and bad, bad garbage. However, the oath of office does in fact require you to solemnly swear to support and defend the Constitution of the United States to bear true faith and allegiance to the same, to take the obligation freely without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion.

1 (43m 19s):
I mean, does this violate the oath of office? I think this is a pretty strong case. This, this violates the oath of office so bad week for Ilhan Omar, who continues to be just the worst person in Congress. That's not the end of the story, by the way. There's more from the Squad in the bad week. For the Hama. Squad continues. Jamal Bowman, who is a man so intelligent, he once mistook a fire alarm for a door opening apparatus. Apparently way back when he was promoting conspiracy theories about nine 11, not stock conspiratorial on the left and on the right has been growing in recent years. There are plenty of conspiracy theorists in Congress. Unfortunately. On Tuesday, the Daily Beast published a report about a blog that Bowman maintained during his days in education.

1 (44m 2s):
This is where he was a principal of an actual public middle school. He published poems and brief essays there on personal, political, and pedagogical concerns. Through 2014, they found a May, 2011 post titled Recapitulate. It is a 137 line free verse poem. Sounds terrible. Which starts as a recollection of world events before transitioning heavily into meditations on various nine 11 conspiracy theories. Generally focused on claiming that they were not terrorist attacks, rather planned by some other entities just to precipitate the war on terror. So Bowman has now made a statement. He says, well, over a decade ago, as I was debating diving into a doctoral degree, I explored a wide range of books, films, and articles across a wide swath of the political spectrum and pro and processed my thoughts in a personal blog that few people ever read.

1 (44m 47s):
Here is some of what he, what he suggested. He said 2001 planes used his missiles target the Twin Towers. 30 minutes later, both buildings collapsed onto themselves. Later in the day, building seven also collapsed. Hmm, multiple explosions heard before and during a collapse. Hmm, allegedly two other planes. The Pentagon, Pennsylvania, hijacked by terrorists, minimal damage on minimal debris found. Hmm. Watch Loose Change and Zeitgeist then share your thoughts. We blamed Osama. We went to warn Iraq, captured Sonam, killed him. Bin Laden is Afghan, so we went to war there too. Wow, that is amazing. Amazing deep thoughts there from Jamal Bowman. So again, the Squad having a bad week, but again, I don't blame the Squad for their own stupidity, malice and corruption.

1 (45m 32s):
I blame the people who voted for them. It's their fault. They shouldn't have voted for them in the first place. And meanwhile, in the least shocking news of the day, it turns out that Harvard's diversity chief is also guilty of plagiarism. So remember that time that the Harvard President Cloud and Gay was guilty of lots and lots of plagiarism and then ended up losing her job. Well, it turns out now according to the New York Post, Harvard University's Chief Diversity and Inclusion officer has been hit with dozens of plagiarism allegations tied to her academic work, including one claim. She failed to properly cite her husband's study. She's plagiarizing her own husband. Oh no. The Ivy League school was handed an anonymous complaint on Monday, listing at least 40 examples of alleged plagiarism by Sherry Ann Charleston dating back to 2009.

1 (46m 12s):
According to the Washington Free Beacon, according to the Beacon, Charleston allegedly quoted or paraphrased a dozen scholars without attribution in her 2009 dissertation at the University of Michigan, and actually took credit for a study that her husband wrote in 2012. So just well done to Harvard, which yeah, again, if you're making the case that diversity is our strength, you need to actually hire people who don't plagiarize that. That would be like the first, the first barrier to overcome the diversity is not. Our strength argument would be hire people who are competent in non plagiarist. That would be like the place that you start. But apparently that was too heavy a lift All folks coming up, we're going to jump into insane comments from the Foreign Secretary for the UK about what he plans to do, vis-a-vis Hamas.

1 (46m 58s):
If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro Checkout for two months. Free and I'll annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

Jeremy's Razors (47m 8s):
We are happy to announce a new product. Jeremy's Razors for Women. Ladies, get a great smooth shave and enjoy knowing that your hard-earned money is going to accompany that celebrates and supports women being women. Get yours today at jeremy's Razors dot com.