Instagram (0s):
Parents should have a say in which apps are right for their teens. That's why Instagram wants to work with Congress to require parental approval wherever teens under 16 download apps. Learn more at instagram.com/parental approval.

ExpressVPN (16s):
The Bench bureau shows sponsored by ExpressVPN Privacy is a right, not a privilege to defend your rights at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (22s):
Yesterday, Kamala Harris said something extraordinarily wise. It was a rare moment of shining brilliance from our very historic vice president here she was.

2 (31s):
You know, every election cycle we talk about, this is the most election of our lifetime, Lawrence. This one is, I have been fortunate and blessed at, during the course of being vice president, have many situations where it becomes clear to me that there are, you know, people of every age and, and gender, by the way, who see something about being the first that lets them know they don't need to be limited by other people's limited understanding of who can do what.

1 (1m 4s):
Yes, indeed, 2024 is shaping up to be the most Election of our lifetime, not just an election, the most election. In other words, a complete show while America awaits the Supreme court ruling on whether or not Colorado can bar Donald Trump from the ballot. Other states are now considering how they can follow Colorado's suit and bar the leading Republican candidate in America, the likely nominee for the presidency from the ballot entirely according to the New York Times. There are at least 15 other states besides Colorado considering barring Trump from the ballot, including four state lawsuits in Michigan, Oregon, New Jersey, and Wisconsin. And 11 federal lawsuits in Alaska, Arizona, Nevada, New York, New Mexico, South Carolina, Texas, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wyoming.

1 (1m 47s):
Right now, the cases in Arizona and Michigan have already been dismissed in Trump's favor, but they have now been appealed. If the Supreme court doesn't take up the Colorado case, if they just leave it there, then Trump will remain off the ballot in Colorado and we can be sure this insanity will be repeated anywhere. There is a democratic Supreme court or legislature and governor. In fact, just yesterday the California Lieutenant Governor Alina AKAs wrote a letter to the California Secretary of State begging for her to quote, explore every legal option to remove President Donald Trump from California's 2024 presidential primary ballot. Hilariously Kakkis is apparently illiterate. She writes in her letter quote, the Constitution is clear, you must be 40 years old and not an insurrectionist.

1 (2m 29s):
Actually, you have to be 35. But same difference. Now it's clear the Colorado Supreme court is legally in the wrong, even Trump's biggest detractors say. So here was Trump's former Attorney General Bill Barr, who has hardly been a Trump ally in the days since the 2020 election.

3 (2m 44s):
As you know, I, I strongly oppose Donald Trump for the Republican nomination, but I think that this case is, is legally wrong and untenable and I think this kind of action of stretching the law, taking these hyperaggressive positions to try to knock Trump out of the race are counterproductive. They backfire, as you know, he, he feeds on grievance just like a fire feeds on oxygen and this is gonna end up as a grievance that helps him.

1 (3m 16s):
And here's Chris Christie who's running a campaign simply and specifically to throw dirt in Trump's eye.

5 (3m 22s):
I do not believe Donald Trump should be prevented from being president of the United States by any court. I think he should be prevented from being president of the United States by the voters of this country.

1 (3m 34s):
Well that doesn't matter. Those who hate Trump believe that it is morally justifiable to use literally any means necessary to keep him from the White House. According to a brand new poll from you gov, 54% of Americans approve of the Colorado state Supreme court's decision to boot Trump from the ballot, including 84% of Democrats. So a majority of Americans, according to this poll, believe that the Colorado State Supreme court should boot Trump from the ballot doesn't bode particularly well for the actual election cycle. That's not because these people believe the legal theory behind what the Colorado Supreme court just did. It's because they believe that any club available to slam Trump in the skull must be used. They're in the same camp as Mary Trump Trump's sneeze who no one had ever heard of five years ago, but who has now made a nice career for herself bashing her uncle.

4 (4m 19s):
Fabulous news today from the Colorado Supreme court who ruled that Donald Trump. Yes, Donald Trump, the insurrectionist anti-American anti-Democratic fascist who for some bizarre reason is leading the Republican nominating contest by 50 points or something is not eligible to be on the ballot for the Republican primary in that state. This is amazing news. Yes, it's going to go to the United States Supreme Court, but if they are able to read English, they should concur with this decision.

1 (5m 3s):
This legal scholar who is a psychologist by the way, has her legal thoughts. Joe Biden is fomenting all of this by supporting the rationale behind the Colorado ban. So yesterday he was asked about the Colorado state Supreme court ruling and he said that Trump was certainly an insurrectionist and that should presumably bar him from the ballot.

4 (5m 21s):
Is Trump an insurrectionist, sir?

6 (5m 24s):
Well, I think so. Certainly self evident You saw it all. Now whether the 14th Amendment applies and let the court make that decision, but he certainly supported it insurrection and no question about it. None. Zero,

1 (5m 38s):
Zero question says our doddering old president, no wonder Republicans are up in arms if Democrats are going to claim that the law can be used as a club and simultaneously their law abiding citizens merely following the law. Trump fans are similarly gonna pick up any club at hand. That's why Trump fans are increasingly cheering his applause line about temporary dictatorship. Here are some of those fans for example,

7 (5m 59s):
They can't say that he's, well they're, I mean they are saying that he's coming after his political opponents, but literally that's exactly everything they're accusing this man of doing is literally what has been going on. Yeah, for the last four. That's why I have no problem with day one dictator. Nope. That's why I have no problem with it. If, if a dictator means he's going to drill, baby drill, I'll sign me up for that dictatorship anywhere.

1 (6m 19s):
Okay, so again, the idea is that Trump's language about dictatorship and all the rest of it, by which he really means just using executive authority in the same ways that Biden and Obama used executive authority. When people say this sort of thing, the reason they're saying it is specifically because Democrats claim that they are pro-democracy at the same time they seek to thwart it in a variety of ways. And if Democrats truly seek to bar Trump from the ballot across the country, Republicans will presumably do the same thing to Democrats. Here's Texas's Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick

8 (6m 46s):
Arizona tried this about 10 years ago, but our law is different. It simply says that our law enforcement can arrest anyone, take them in, do a background check photograph, do fingerprints. If they saw them cross the border illegally, we can do that. Or if they happen to reveal in the arrest, stop that they across illegally and then the magistrate will send them back and will escort them to the border and they have a choice. They can go to jail or they can go back. And if they go back and try to come back again and we arrest 'em again, the penalty gets even higher. We're fed up in fact seeing what happened in Colorado tonight. Laura, it makes me think except we believe in democracy in Texas, maybe we should take Joe Biden off the ballot in Texas for allowing 8 million people to cross the border since he's been president

1 (7m 38s):
Again. Section three of the 14th. Amendment does suggest that if you take sides against America, if you take sides with America's enemies, if you undermine the Constitution, maybe that acts as caused to remove somebody from the ballot. America is indeed on the precipice of something. Truly dangerous. Question, are there now any conditions under which Republicans will accept a Biden victory at this point? If Joe Biden wins the 2024 election, how many Republicans are going to simply say, okay, done here an elections and election on the other side? Are there any conditions under which Democrats will accept a Trump victory? And if not, what comes next? The answer is nothing. Very good. 2024 is indeed going to be very election, the most election as Kamala Harris says.

1 (8m 20s):
So get ready in one second. We'll get to the polls Donald Trump way out in front nationally, but some interesting things happening in New Hampshire and the primaries.

Pure Talk (8m 28s):
First, are you traveling for the holidays? If so, Pure Talk has you covered because they just added International Roaming to over 30 countries. That's correct. Whether you're making calls on a beach in The Bahamas, on the steps of Buckingham Palace or at your villa in Santorini, you can dial away And here is the best part. There is no rate increase. Pure Talk still saves the average family almost a thousand dollars a year with plans starting at just 20 bucks a month. Pure Talk is the gift that keeps on giving. They put you on America's most Dependable 5G network. The coverage is second to none. So stop dragging your feet. Switch on over to Pure Talk, a veteran owned wireless company with simply the best US customer service team. Now with International Roaming to over 30 countries. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro right now and make that switch. You'll also save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro to start saving on wireless today. I've been using Pure Talk for all of my calls for years at this point. The coverage is excellent. They share a big tower network with one of the big guys. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash drill. Start saving money today. Pure Talk is simply smarter wireless and again, when you go to Pure Talk dot com slash Pure, you save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage.

1 (9m 30s):
Okay, so looking at the national polls Donald Trump is experiencing unsurprisingly a fairly significant bump after the Colorado Supreme court just did what it did. According to the latest Quinnipiac poll, Trump is up nationally 67% to 11% for DeSantis and 11% for hay. So two thirds of the national vote behind Donald Trump in the various states you can see Trump continuing to lead fairly significantly. So in Iowa, the latest Fox business poll has Trump up at 52%, DeSantis at 18 and Nikki Haley at 16. So even if you combined both of their percentages, they would be at 34%, 18% behind Donald Trump. So he has a significant lead over in Iowa. New Hampshire is a bit of a different story according to a new CBS poll, New Hampshire Trump is at 44 but Nikki Haley is at 30%.

1 (10m 20s):
Chris Christie is at 12%. So if you added together, Chris Christie's supported Nikki Haley's support. If Christie were to get outta the race as he should, that would look like a competitive state. They need move down south to South Carolina and things could theoretically get a little interesting because of course Nikki Haley is the former governor of South Carolina nationally speaking the Trump versus Biden polls, they are tightening a little bit. Quinnipiac has Biden up 1 47 to 46. Economist Juv has them tied at 43. Morning consult has Trump up by two at 44 to 42. And again, this is how it works. As Trump gets back in the headlines, the polls tend to tighten between Trump and Biden. This is why anybody who is suggesting that it's gonna be a runaway for Trump, I don't see the evidence for that.

1 (10m 60s):
Anybody who's suggesting that it's gonna be a runaway for Biden, I don't see the evidence of that either. This thing could seriously go either way and a lot is dependent on the candidate strategy. So Joe Biden is gonna try to run a basement strategy and it's not gonna work 'cause he's the current president of the United States. Donald Trump should be running a basement strategy if Donald Trump runs a basement strategy in 2024. If he does exactly what Joe Biden did in 2020, if he just goes down to his basement and watches Shark Week from now until the election, very solid shot that he becomes president again. But one of the big problems that the RNC is having is this is a big election year, not just for Donald Trump but for the Republican Senate for example. So Republicans have the upper hand in a bunch of Senate races that they need in order to regain the majority in the Senate, but the RNC has no cash 'cause all the money is getting sucked up into Trump world and Trump doesn't spend the cash on Republican candidates in these various areas.

1 (11m 48s):
According to Rob Pryors, who is a political junkie research director for the California Target book, he has statistics on RNC cash on hand at the end of November. By year in 2016 the RNC had $21 million on hand in 20 18, 20 $7 million in 20 20, 50 $8 million, 2021 $65 million as of 2023. The RNC cash on hand is less than $10 million, meaning no one is giving to the RNC. That's a real problem if you're looking at a bunch of competitive congressional races and Senate races where Donald Trump is not going to spend one iota of his time, that that is the reality of the race. And so again, the the idea that Trump is just gonna walk away with this thing, I understand that Trump doesn't like strategy and Trump really does not like planning his on the ground game is not really existent.

1 (12m 37s):
He sort of throws it out there and then hopes and prays that victory will emerge Maybe. it will. I'm not saying it can't, I'm just saying that right now the RNC is short on cash. Trump has no ground game and no actual strategy in a lot of these states. The best thing he could do right now is get some pros on board to actually run the on the ground, get out the vote campaign if he wins the primaries, which presumably he will and then he needs to go to the basement and shut up and watch Joe Biden be a bad president. Speaking of which Joe Biden's presidency, it continues to be a mess. He cannot take clear political positions on nearly anything. So on the one hand you have the State Department for the United States saying that Israel should basically be allowed to defend itself by taking out Kamas, which is good.

1 (13m 19s):
Your Secretary of State Tony Blinken saying that yesterday.

9 (13m 22s):
What is striking to me is that even as again we hear many countries urging the end to this conflict, which we would all like to see, I hear virtually no one saying demanding of Hamas, that it stopped hiding behind civilians, that it lay down its arms that it surrender. This is over tomorrow if Hamas does that, this would've been over a month ago, six weeks ago if Hamas had done that and how could it be? How could it be that there are no demands made of the aggressor and only demands made of the victim.

9 (14m 6s):
So it would be good if there was a strong international voice pressing Hamas to do what's necessary to end this.

1 (14m 17s):
Okay, obviously that's good, but at the same exact time the United States is now negotiating with the most high sleeve international politics, a wretched hive of scum and villainy the United Nations in order to facilitate the passage of some sort of UN security council resolution about ceasefires and humanitarian aid and all the rest. It's just a, it's just a mess of policy inside the Biden administration because apparently they lack the courage of their own convictions. We'll get to that in just one second.

Beam (14m 42s):
First, the holidays are here. The last thing you need during this busy time of yours to miss out on a great night's sleep. That is why my team uses Beams Dream Powder Beam's Dream powder contains a powerful all natural blend of ingredients including magnesium l-theanine. It's not just your run of the mill sleep aid, it's concoction carefully crafted to help you slip into the sweet embrace of rest without the grogginess that often accompanies other sleep remedies. Sleep is the foundation of our mental and physical health. You must have a consistent nighttime routine to function at your best today my listeners get a special discount on Beams Dream powder. It's their bestselling hot cocoa for sleep with no added sugar now available in delicious flavors like cinnamon, cocoa, chocolate, peanut butter and mint chip. Better sleep has never tasted better. Just mix beam dream into hot water or milk stir or froth and enjoy before bedtime. If you find yourself battling those bedtime blues, give it a shot. Your weary self will thank you. If you wanna try Beam's best selling Dream powder Get up to 40% off for a limited time when you go to shop beam.com/ BEN, use code BEN checkout, that's shop b eam.com/ BEN. Use code Ben for up to 40% off. Again that is shop beam.com/ BEN. Use code BEN for up to 40% off.

1 (15m 43s):
So the reason that you have this mask confusion inside the White House is because they can't take a moral stand. Too many of their supporters are either radical leftists or weak liberals. And when I say weak liberals, I mean people who are willing to cave to radical leftists if they believe the situation so requires. So speaking of the radical leftists the other night, and this is just amazing video and it shows you how insane some of the democratic support bases protestors in New York City were screaming Shame on you At a, at a, an event outside an event that was being held a charity event in New York City. So the woman who's actually leaving here is a woman named Ayelet Levy. ALA's daughter is NAMA who happens to be one of the hostages who's raped and kidnapped by Hamas terrorists.

1 (16m 26s):
And here are the protestors screaming at her, Flipping off, screaming at you know, the mothers of people who were kidnapped and and raped, but he obviously raped you remember the daughter as the woman from the photograph where her pants are covered in blood and her Achilles heels were cut so she could not run away. She was hobbled so she couldn't run away. So those are the radical left are part of Joe Biden's base. Meanwhile you have the so-called soft liberals inside Biden's Congressional Caucus.

1 (17m 7s):
Those would be people like Jason Crow and Chrissy Houlahan, unfortunately Seth Moulton, Alyssa Slotkin, Abigail Berger, these are the supposed moderates in the Democratic caucus. They issued a letter yesterday to Biden saying quote, we are deeply concerned by Prime Minister Netanyahu's current military strategy in Gaza. The mounting civilian death toll and humanitarian crisis are unacceptable and not in line with American interests, nor do they advance the cause of security for our ally Israel. We also believe it jeopardizes efforts to destroy the terrorist organization kamas and secure the release of all hostages. From our positions on the Intelligence Armed Service and Foreign Affairs Committee, we have consistently pushed for Israel to shift its military military strategy. There's been no significant change. Now I have a question. What did, what exactly would that change look like? Seriously, all recommendations, welcome. People keep saying that Israel ought to be more humane.

1 (17m 48s):
They need to preserve civilian life better. They need to go in on the ground and be more careful. Israel has lost about 130 soldiers in the Gaza Strip already, all of them very young men and Israel is sacrificing those lives in order to save civilians obviously. But there is this bizarre mentality that now prevails among many Americans in which war does not exist. Or if war does exist, it's supposed to be clean, it's supposed to be precise. That is not how war works. This letter includes the following idiotic line. By the way we know from personal and often painful experience, you can't destroy a terror ideology with military force alone and it can in fact make it worse. Well the way that you actually destroy a terror ideology is with long-term occupation ification and counter and counterinsurgency tactics.

1 (18m 33s):
That's actually how you destroy a terror ideology over time. It certainly isn't by making concessions to terrorists, which is what a ceasefire would be as blinking correctly stated. And meanwhile, Hamas is openly thanking its allies in the western world. So literally a spokesperson from Hamas yesterday issued a video thanking the Canadian government for calling for a ceasefire. Guys, if Hamas is thanking you, you're doing it wrong

11 (18m 56s):
By Canada, Australia and New Zealand backing sustainable ceasefire in Gaza. We welcome this developments and consider them in the right direction toward isolation. The fasc is fascist Israel government globally and ending the longer ever occupy occupation in our modern time.

1 (19m 20s):
Okay, that's Hamas literally thanking Western governments again when a terrorist group thanks you, you are doing it wrong. Meanwhile, Kamas is rejecting Israel's offer to stop fighting for a week for a hostage deal to go forward. They say, no, no, no, you have to stop firing on us before we are going to offer you anything. Meanwhile, as of this morning, Kamas was firing its largest barrage of rockets into Tel Aviv that it has for a couple of weeks, like 30 rockets falling toward Tel Aviv. So, so much for the ceasefire, there is no ceasefire. Kamas knows it. It's all a tactic by Hamas. And weakness breeds. It breeds problems, it breeds failure. We'll get to that in just one second.

Tommy John (19m 59s):
First this season. Why not give the gift of comfort to everybody on your list, including yourself with new Tommy John underwear, loungewear and PJ's right now, Tommy John has their huge End of the Year Sale with up to 75% off make giving Tommy John a holiday tradition for all the men and women in your family. With over 20 million pairs sold and thousands of five star reviews. Tommy John doesn't have customers, they have fanatics. One Tommy John fanatic raves quote. Fantastic Christmas gift that went so right. She loves the pajamas are Tommy John stuff again, I have Tommy John, my wife has all sorts of Tommy John stuff. It is phenomenal stuff. Tommy John Loungewear is cozy enough to use his sleepwear stylish enough to wear for a quick stroll to the coffee shop. He won't look like you rolled outta bed even though you probably did. Tommy John's loungewear is guaranteed to fit perfectly comfy non pilling micro modal fabric. No lint balls are fuzz luxuriously soft try blend fabrics with flexible four-way stretch. Shop Tommy John's end of your sale happening right now. Enjoy huge savings of up to 75% off at tommy johns.com/ Ben. Again that's up to 75% off only for a limited time@tommyjohns.com slash Ben. Visit tommy john.com for details, Tommy john.com/ Ben.

1 (21m 2s):
Okay, so weakness breeds failure and that's what we are seeing in the Red Sea. So according to the Wall Street Journal, as the US led multinational task force steamed toward the Middle East to protect one of the world's vital shipping lanes, the who the Rebels vowed to retaliate if attacked. Yet despite rising tensions in the Red Sea on Wednesday, traders reacted with relative calm. Even a shipping companies diverted more cargoes to alternative route while the threat of more severe disruption persists the responsive energy markets has been muted compared with dramatic moves in prices sparked by some other past outbreaks of violence in the Middle East. Well yeah, I mean if you compare us like 1973 of course 'cause there's a giant oil embargo from like Saudi Arabia. But the reality of the situation is that when you have again ragtag hhy pirates in inflatables with drones who are holding up one of the key choke points for global trade, that is a serious problem and it's not just a serious problem because of what's happening in the Red Sea, it's a serious problem because once states that hate the United States, once countries that have interests adverse to our own realize that they can drive America off the ball in the area of freedom of the seas, they can really affect the global economy in significant and severe ways.

1 (22m 10s):
So I wanna show you a map. There's a map of maritime choke points across the world and a lot of people don't think about exactly how the stuff that you want gets to you, but the reality is that there are these choke points, you know places where a huge percentage of trade actually moves. So if you can't see the map, there are again a bunch of things labeled on this map. I'll try to describe for you places that trade moves and and these are bottlenecks like places that very often are, are close to nations that are adversarial to to the United States. So the number one choke point, the primary choke point for Asia is a place called the Strait of Malacca. It is very close to China and it has the ability if you close it, to really affect China's economy.

1 (22m 50s):
Alternatively, because it's very close to China, you could see China attempt to make aggressive moves in the Strait of Malca. It accounts for about 25% of all traded goods and a third of all seaborne oil and that that is, that is a choke point. Another choke point, the Taiwan straits. So in China is threatening Taiwan. They're also threatening the Taiwan straits, which is a place where a lot of trade moves. If you look at for example, the Strait of Hor moves, this is one of the areas that Iran is currently threatening. 30% of all oil traded on the world's oceans passes through the Strait of Horus because it moves from the Middle East and down through the Ba El Manam Strait, which is another place where a lot of oil moves. And then up through the Suez Canal again, all these places threatened by Iran and Iranian proxies.

1 (23m 35s):
So you have China, which is threatening like the Taiwan Straits and the Strait of Malacca, and you have Middle Eastern countries adversarial to America like Iran threatening the straight of Horus, the Baal Madam Strait, the Suez Canal, forcing people to travel all the way around the southern tip of Africa, the Cape of Good Hope, which is a much longer trip. It increases all of your prices. What this really means is that again, if America does not guarantee freedom of the seas, then what you are going to end up with is a crater global economy at the behest of countries that hate the United States and seek to curb our power. And the Chinese are seeing the weakness apparently according to a B, C news last night, Chinese President Xi Jinping told President Joe Biden directly at their recent summit that China will reunify with Taiwan.

1 (24m 20s):
It was unclear whether Beijing plans to use force in its efforts to reunify with Taiwan, but she indicated they'll try at first to do so peacefully. Key words there being at first she has said as much publicly what is noteworthy is that he said this so bluntly to the president at a summit intended to thaw their relations and John Kirby told reporters quote, I'm not gonna get into specifics of the discussion between the two leaders. I think you can understand, I'm not gonna read out that private conversation. He said, president Xi has been public and clear about his desires for reunification. That's not something different or new. We have been clear and the president was clear with you guys and with President Xi, we still adhere to the one China policy. We don't support independence for Taiwan. We also don't support a change in the status quo unilaterally and certainly not one by fours. And as the president has said, there's no reason for this to come to blows.

1 (25m 2s):
Asked about whether US involvement in two other global conflicts, Ukraine and Gaza alters his previous commitment to defend Taiwan from any Chinese military action. Biden reiterated in November, the US position in favor of the one China policy, which is basically just, let's not talk about this one. China policy is like sure Taiwan is part of the one China policy and also if you attack Taiwan, we'll defend it. Probably it's strategic vagueness. Biden said, look, I reiterate what I've said since I've become president and what every previous president of late has said that we maintain an agreement there's a one China policy, I'm not gonna change that. That's not gonna change. And so that's about the extent to which we discussed it. Apparently in a readout of the summit, China said quote Xi Jinping elaborated on his principled position on the Taiwan issue and pointed out the Taiwan issue has always been the most important and sensitive issue in Sino UUs relations.

1 (25m 47s):
China attached its importance to the relevant positive statements made by the United States at the Bali meeting. China will be unified and inevitably will be unified according to US military intelligence. Xi has been instructing his military to be ready by 2027 to invade Taiwan. That obviously is a timeline that could be moved up pretty dramatically. If GSz senses global weakness by the west, an unwillingness to use for example naval power in pursuit of the freedom of the seas, that could continue to be a serious problem. And it goes also to a general belief in the United States that we can randomly sort of cut off our own military without real consequence to the American people.

1 (26m 30s):
We spend too much money, we should be more isolationists and all of the rest. That is in fact also a massive problem when it comes to American underinvestment. That is particularly true with regard to the Navy. The Navy does the biggest share of the lifting when it comes to war making, ensuring freedom of trade. I did a recent fax episode all about this. You can go check it out on YouTube, but the Navy represents about 23% of our annual military budget that's lower than both the Army and the Air Force. Not only that, the US has fewer operating naval carriers today than it did four decades ago. The US Navy keeps talking about growing while shrinking, relying on better technology to make up for lack of ships. One of the things that we have seen historically with US military policy is whenever the US military is like, we'll, we'll do it fewer but better, that tends to work out not particularly well, whether you're talking about the occupation of Iraq or you're talking about in Vietnam using much more military technology but doing graduated escalation that doesn't actually work.

1 (27m 24s):
You need lots of ships in the water to challenge the Chinese who have 355 ships. Now they do have what they call a gray water Navy, meaning that they are really relegated to coastal areas to do serious battle. But the thing is the Taiwan straits for them, that's basically a coastal battle. Admiral Charles Richard, commander of US strategic command said in 2022, as I assess our level of deterrence against China, the ship is slowly sinking. It's sinking slowly, but it is sinking as fundamentally, they're putting capability in the field faster than we are. As those curves keep going, it isn't gonna matter how good our operating plan is or how good our commanders are or how good our forces are, we're not gonna have enough of them. That is a very near term problem. Undersea capabilities is still the one true asymmetric advantage we have against our opponents. But unless we pick up pace in terms of getting our maintenance problems fixed, getting new construction going, if we can't figure that out, we're not gonna put ourselves in a good position to maintain strategic deterrence in national defense unquote.

1 (28m 13s):
And so again, when XI is threatening Taiwan, the reason doing that is because if the United States and its allies can't even deter the Houthis, then how are you gonna deter a massive military power like the Chinese and that does have serious spillover effects. I know everybody likes to pretend that warmaking and economics are completely disconnected from each other, that isolationism has no actual consequences, that is wrong. Not only is that wrong, it's connected to a bizarre view of how the economy works in general. I'll get to that in just one second.

Helix (28m 42s):
First, I've been talking about my Helix mattress for years. I've had my Helix mattress, I know almost a decade at this point. I love it. It's the gift that keeps on giving. It's the only thing maybe keeping me alive at this point 'cause I'm not a great sleeper, but Helix sleep allows me to sleep. Helix is now introducing their newest, most high-end collection. The Helix Elite Collection. Helix Elite harnesses years of extensive mattress expertise to offer a truly elevated sleep experience. That Helix Elite Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for a specific sleep position and firmness preference. Go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben, check out the brand new collection today. If you're nervous about buying a mattress online, you don't have to be because they've got a sleep quiz matches the mattress to your body type. I did it, you can do it, it's great. Plus Helix has a 10 warranty. You can try it out for a hundred nights risk free. They'll even pick it up for you if you don't love it. But I'm not sure that has ever happened. Helix is currently offering 20% off all mattress orders and two free pillows. For my listeners today, go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. This is their best offer yet it's not gonna last long with Helix. Better sleep starts right now. Again, 20% off all mattress orders. Two free pillow for my listeners, go check them out right now. Helix sleep.com/ Ben.

1 (29m 42s):
While all this foreign policy isolationism and vacillation is connected to a, a deeper view of the American economy that I think is totally and deeply flawed and the reality is freedom of the seas has allowed you to live a better lifestyle. Freedom of the seas, the spread of democracy, the spread of liberalism, the possibility of free trade. All of these things have a real world impact on you. Autarchy in the United States is possible, but super duper expensive. This is like basic econ 1 0 1. You go, you can go down to the local McDonald's, you can pick up a hamburger for a couple of bucks. Do you know how much it would take to produce that hamburger in your backyard to like grow the to, to like go and buy a cow to then slaughter the cow, process the cow to grow the wheat, to grow all the ingredients, to do all this stuff.

1 (30m 31s):
A lot of money, supply chains, supply lines, comparative advantage. All of these things matter. It is why efficiencies are created that allow you to go get pretty much any product you want on Amazon for an affordable price. It's why people have been living better lives consistently over the course of time. It's because of the rise of free trade. It's because of the broadening of supply lines. It's because of that comparative advantage that so many people like to rip upon. It's because of, for lack of a better term, libertarian economics. Now I am not a libertarian when it comes to social policy 'cause I think libertarianism is ignorance of what it is that makes human beings tick when it comes to social policy because we're not just atomized individuals, we are members of communities and obviously it's a really important part of being a fulfilled human being capable of living a full human life and experience and building institutions and raising families and all the rest.

1 (31m 21s):
However, when it comes to economics, there's this phrase that's been used, been tossed around a lot by people on the right of late, I'll say like two cheers for capitalism. And I always think to myself that's that's, that's a dumb phrase as opposed to three cheers for capitalism. Why? 'cause capitalism doesn't solve all your problems. Well, duh. I mean duh, I'm I'm always confused as why anyone would think capitalism would solve literally all of your problems. Only a Marxist materialist would think that economics can solve all of your problems. Economics can't solve all your problems. It can solve some of your economic problems, but it can't solve, you know, spiritual problems. It can't solve the problems you're having with your wife. Economics is not going to solve whatever family issues you have or whether your church is breaking down.

1 (32m 1s):
In fact, depending on the economic system, it can exacerbate some of those conflicts. What economics can do, depending on the system, is make things better and cheaper and more plentiful and innovative. That's what economics can do. When people say two, cheers for lib, for for economics or two, two cheers for capitalism. I think to myself as like saying two cheers for a hammer. Well, no, I mean it depends what you're doing. If you're hitting a nail three, cheers for the hammer. If you're, if you're holding a baby zero cheers for the hammer. Like what, what exactly is it that you are attempting to do with the tool? What is the system you are describing? The reason this comes to mind is because I've had sort of this longstanding debate with Tucker Carlson about the nature of economics in the United States and what we should be pursuing.

1 (32m 44s):
So Tucker and I did this really interesting interview a couple years ago now, probably longer than that, maybe five years ago now, where we talked about the role of the government in the economy. And Tucker has a significantly more socialistic view of the economy than I do just blatantly. I mean he has endorsed, for example, many of the plans of Senator Elizabeth Warren is not a slander against Tucker. I mean it's something that he will say openly and clearly. Well he was doing an interview the other day with Glenn Greenwald who's also been a guest on my program and, and they were talking about economic economics and Tucker went into this rant about the evils of libertarian economics. And I think this is so shortsighted. I, I think it's really damaging to the future of American prosperity and it relies on a bunch of falsehoods with regard to how the world works.

1 (33m 31s):
Now I wanted to listen to this 'cause I, again, I think this has spillover effects foreign policy. It assumes that the best policy is going to be protectionist. That high tariffs around America's borders are what's gonna make American people wealthier and better off. It assumes that an uninvolved America in the world's fear is somehow going to make American citizens better off. It's all predicated on this notion of economics that ignores the importance of comparative advantage and price structure and all the rest in favor of vaguer concepts like beauty. Now again, I'm not anti-beauty, but when I need a hamburger, I'm more interested in the hamburger than I am in, you know, the Venus de Milo. In any case, here's Tucker and then I wanna break this down a little bit 'cause it's interesting.

12 (34m 11s):
I think a lot of people have awakened to the now demonstrable fact that libertarian economics was a scam perpetrated by the beneficiaries of the economics system that they were defending. So they created this whole intellectual

1 (34m 24s):
Framework, pause that for a second. So I I don't like, I don't like this conspiracy theorizing about the nature of libertarian economics. Libertarian economics says the government should not control the free flow of goods and services. That's all Libertarian economics says. A free market has property rights for you and the government can't get involved. That is the opposite of a conspiracy theory. A conspiracy is when a group of powerful people restructure an entire economy around particular interest. So for example, if you were to push forward a protectionist policy that is a policy designed to protect specific people in your country, in a particular industry, from competition, from other people in the country and also elsewhere, that is the goal of it. That's an actual cadre of powerful people shaping the economic system for everyone.

1 (35m 7s):
A baseline rule which is that you have freely alienable goods and services. You can alienate your own labor, you can, someone can pay you for your labor at a given wage. Like that's, that's not a conspiracy me giving you the ability to actually trade with other people. I'm, I'm confused as to how that would be a conspiracy by me now may not end to the benefit of people who are less competitive in a particular industry. And there may be very good reasons to protect certain industries. For example, for national security reasons. I think that we should be be cutting down on trade from China because I don't think we should be enriching our enemies. That's a different thing from saying that economically speaking, there's this group, this, this secret group of libertarian economists who for their own benefit, like Milton Friedman was sitting in the back room and he is like, I need to be rich and the only way I'm going to be rich is if there's free market economics.

1 (35m 56s):
That's, that's just not true. It's just not true there. There's a kind of politics that a lot of people are engaged in these days called emom. It's a basic philosophy that suggests that the reason your opponents are doing the thing they are doing is because of their own emotions. They're doing it 'cause they're badly motivated because they want the worst for you. I think it's an ugly way to do politics unless you act actual evidence that that is the case. It's a conspiracy way to do politics. It turns out that some people have ideas that are different from you. Sometimes it is because they're corrupt or they're being paid or whatever it is. But in many cases it's because they just disagree. don don't think Tucker's saying what he's saying 'cause he's being paid off or 'cause he's a vested interest. And so I kind of object to this idea that anyone who disagrees disagrees because they're trying to actively harm somebody else.

1 (36m 38s):
I, I don't think that that's the case when you are talking about, for example, free market economics. Here's more of Tucker

12 (36m 43s):
Intellectual framework to justify the private equity culture that's hollowed out the country. That's my personal view and I've seen it up close my whole life. So I think it's a fair assessment. I think a smarter way to assess an economic system is by its results. So you can assign whatever name you want to the economic system of the United States. You could call it market capitalism, you could call it. I mean you could call it a whole host of different things. but I, I don't think any of that's useful. Those are boring conversations. I think you need to ask does this economic system produce a lot of dollar stores? And if it does, it's not a system that you want because it degrades people and it makes their lives worse and it increases exponentially the amount of ugliness in your society and anything that increases ugliness is evil and it's just kind of, let's just start there.

12 (37m 32s):
So if it's such a good system, why do we have all these dollar stores?

1 (37m 36s):
Okay, that that is an amazing statement. Why exactly are dollar stores the root of all evil? So first of all, I should point out at this point that according to consumer reports, 88% of Americans shop at dollar stores at least occasionally my family shops at the dollar store at least occasionally, almost a third of respondents in the 2021 Consumer report survey said they shop at dollar stores More than once a month. This seems like a really elitist attitude. It seems like dollar stores are good. You buy things for a dollar or at least you did until Joe Biden took off and inflated the currency. Now it's like the $5 store. It is good to have products at your disposal for cheaper. This is a good thing. Why are we frowning upon this? It seems to me a much, much worse system is a system that produces no dollar stores.

1 (38m 18s):
A system that produces more expensive goods and services that force your family to pay more. A system that, for example, relies on guilds and doesn't produce dollar or relies on government are breadlines better than dollar stores. 'cause there are a few choices when it comes to economics. Dollar stores are actually not now. When he, and then he shifts into this discussion of it increases ugliness. Now when he talks about ugliness, are we talking about like the physical stature of dollar stores? These are not like gorgeous gothic edifices. These are, they're not beautiful to look at. Well obviously that's true. Obviously it's true that's dollar stores are not beautiful to look at. They look like big box stores also. That's one of the reasons that you can get the product for cheap at the dollar store because if they look like gothic cathedrals that have to upcharge you on the product in order to pay for the gothic cathedral looking place where you're buying your tomatoes, which would be weird.

1 (39m 8s):
There's this kind of break that's happening here where from an elite perspective they don't like that it looks bad, that there's like an ugly store at the corner of town that makes it possible for you to feed your family. That seems really elitist to me. It also seems to be disconnected from history. If you go to Hungary, which is a country that a lot of people love and and has a lot of history to it and a lot of the architecture there is spectacular. I mean Budapest is an incredibly beautiful city. I can tell you because this is the way that it worked in Hungary for hundreds of years. Nobody was running the farmer's market from the church. They had like a Hutt outside. The equivalent of the dollar store in Hungary is not a gothic cathedral. A gothic cathedral is a gothic cathedral.

1 (39m 50s):
The equivalent of a dollar store in Hungary for hundreds of years was like an outdoor stall in the market that was significantly worse for produce than for example a dollar store. Here's the thing about America. America has always, this is one of the beauties of America. It's the reason why we are world power. This is one of the reasons we have always been a nascent and then obviously dominant world power. It is because in America function frequently defeats beauty as a priority. 'cause Americans are a pragmatic and practical people who are seeking to better the lives of their citizens through things like economic opportunity. Which means more dollar stores, not fewer dollar stores. Not only do you shop at them, tons of people work at them.

1 (40m 31s):
Go back to Alexis de Tocqueville writing in 1831. Again, this is nothing new. I don't know where this idea came from, that America was always filled with like gorgeous edifices. It's not true. The vast majority of early American history was filled with abandoned log cabins. Here's what Alexis de Tocqueville writes in democracy in America. Quote Thus, the European quits his cottage to go to inhabit transatlantic shores and the American who's born on the same coast plunges in turn into the solitudes of the center of America. This double movement of immigration never stops. It begins deep in Europe. It continues over the great ocean. It follows across the solitudes of the new world. Millions of men advance at once toward the same point on the horizon. Their language, their religion, their mors di, their morays differ. Their goal is common. They were told that fortune is to be found somewhere toward the west and they go off in haste to meet it.

1 (41m 15s):
Sometimes man advances so quickly the wilderness reappears behind him. The forest is only bent underneath his feet as soon as he has passed. It recovers. It is not rare when passing through the new states of the west to encounter abandoned dwellings in the middle of the woods. Often one discovers the debris of a hutt in the deepest solitude and one is astonished to come across partial clearings, which attest at once it's human power and human inconstancy. In Europe, we habitually regard restiveness of mind, a moderate desire for wealth, extreme love of independence as great social dangers. It's precisely all these things that guarantee a long and peaceful future to the American republics is Alexis de Tocqueville writing in 18 31 2 centuries ago. Without these restive passions, the population would be concentrated around certain places and would as among us soon feel needs difficult to satisfy What a happy country is.

1 (41m 59s):
The new world where man's vices are almost as useful to society as as his virtues. The American republics in Aza are like companies of merchants formed to exploit in common the wilderness lands of the new world and busy in aCommerce that is prospering. And then he talks about what exactly log cabins look like in America. He says, quote at the extreme limits of the Confederated states on the boundaries of society and wilderness stands a population of hardy adventurers who in order to flee the poverty, ready to afflict them under their father's roofs, have no fear of plunging into the solitudes of America and seeking a new native country there scarcely arrived at a place that will serve as a refuge for him. The pioneer hastily fells some trees and raises a cabin under the leaves and it might build a dollar store. Nothing offers a more miserable aspect in these isolated dwellings.

1 (42m 40s):
The traveler who approaches them toward evening perceives from afar the flame of the hearth glittering through the walls. And at night if the wind comes up, he hears the roof of foliage rustling in the midst of the trees of the forest. Who could not believe that this poor cottage serves as a refuge for coarseness and ignorance? Yet one must not establish any relation between the pioneer and the place that serves as his refuge. All is primitive and savage around him, but he is so to speak the result of 18th centuries of work and experience. He wears the clothing of the towns. He speaks their language. He knows the past, is curious about the future, argues about the present. He's a very civilized man who for a time submits to living in the middle of the woods who plunges into the wilderness of the new world of the Bible. A hatchet and newspapers. It's difficult to imagine how incredibly rapidly thought circulates within this wilderness.

1 (43m 20s):
There is scarcely a pioneer's cabin where one does not encounter some odd volumes of Shakespeare. I recall having read the futile drama of Henry V for the first time in a log house. And the sort of scorn that's being poured on people who shop at the dollar store in the name of the people is very weird to me. I don't understand it. It doesn't make sense. What makes lives better for middle class and lower income Americans is freedom of the seas. Trade better products at a cheaper price and their lives contrary. Public opinion are getting better. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Grand Canyon University (43m 53s):
First, The Ben Shapiro Show is supported by Grand Canyon University, an affordable private Christian university with a vibrant campus in beautiful Phoenix, Arizona. Ranked top 20 in the country by niche.com. GCU is a missional Christ-centered university that strives to foster a culture of community giving and impact. GCU U'S goal is to help you develop into a servant leader who makes a difference through finding your purpose. With 330 academic programs and over 270 online, as of June, 2023, GCU integrates the free market system with a welcoming Christian worldview into your bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree. They'll have support from your own university counselor who takes a personalized approach to helping you achieve your goals. Find your purpose at Grand Canyon University private Christian affordable visit gcu.edu today.

Bentkey (44m 33s):
Also, you've heard me talking about how every day more kids content is indoctrinating your kids with radical left-wing garbage. It's only getting worse. Just this week, the New York Times attacked our Bentkey kids show Chip Chilla for having quote, a weirdly present father who teaches quote lessons about dead white people. Those dead white people, by the way, are like George Washington, Neil Armstrong and Benjamin Franklin. Then Coco Mellon, literally the most watched children's content in history, has 172 billion views on YouTube is the most popular kids show on Netflix. They introduced two dads encouraging their son to choose a dress. Seriously. That's the thing. But it's not just Coco Mellon, Peppa Pig, blues clues, Muppet Babies, more of these shows that are supposed to be for kids. They continue to push this radical left wing agenda and propaganda to our kids. I mean, here's the stuff from Coco Mellon. You love To get up and dance. How about you break out those moves For your two those you can see this is two gay dads and there is the little boy who is wearing a tiara and a skirt. Not sure what to choose here at The. Daily Wire, we don't just complain about the problem. We create solutions. This is why we've invested tens of millions of dollars into making Bentkey a platform for kids entertainment that actually reinforces our values and protects kids from the most radical ideas of today. The best part, Bentkey has awesome content. Trust me, your kids are gonna love it. Chip Chilla. It's a blast. Mabel McClay is like Mr. Rogers updated runes is full of adventure. There are tons of more episodes dropping all the time. New episodes drop every Saturday. You don't have to take my word for it. Starting today. You can try Bentkey for free. That is correct. Merry Christmas. Go to Bentkey dot com, use code Unlock and start your free 14 day trial. There's no excuse not to try it. Give your kids content, they'll love this holiday on a platform you can trust to give to you and a gift to your kids. 'cause you can actually leave your kids in front of the screen for More than five minutes without worrying that Disney's gonna try to trans them or something. Join the Bentkey family today. Spread the word. Start your free trial. Please encourage everyone else you know to do the same. Unlock, the new Adventure in Kids Entertainment today at Bentkey dot com with code Unlock. Again, the code you need to start your 14 day free trial is Unlock.

1 (46m 35s):
Okay? Meanwhile, the same sort of critique that could be leveraged, that could be Levy against the Dollar Store 'cause it's ugly, 'cause it's put up in in a big box. You know, steel frame building, that that same critique could have been labeled, it could have been levied at tract housing across America. So in the 1930s, forties, fifties, you know, in the golden era when everyone was seeking a house. By the way, our house is now much bigger. But these were like the this the golden era. According to many of the people who are now proclaiming that American economics has done us wrong. Those tracked houses are ugly, they're not beautiful. But the purpose of the tracked house was to give a man a plot of land to live on and a house to have. And they were built cheap. If you've ever been in these wood frame houses from 1940, they were thrown up and they all look the same.

1 (47m 21s):
And here's a picture of tract housing in Cincinnati. Does this look beautiful to you? This picture of tract housing in Cincinnati, this is not beautiful. This, this is not add to the beauty. There's nothing gorgeous about these tract houses in Cincinnati except for the opportunity to provide to a person to live in his own home with his family. Maybe these people shop at the Dollar Store. I don't know. It turns out that More than 40 million housing units were built in the United States during the 30 year period following the end of World War ii. At least 30 million of those were single family homes. And a huge percentage of those were these Tracted houses, right? Again, thrown up. Don't look like Eastern colonials aren't beautiful. All they did is provide people with opportunity.

1 (48m 1s):
That is what libertarian economics actually does. People buy these tracts of land, they build tracted houses and then they sell them. And as for the notion that libertarian economics has sort of hollowed out America, I'm sorry, but it's not true. It is simply not true. There are certain industries in the United States that have gone away. As the world supply chains have become more broad and diverse, we don't make a lot of T-shirts here in the United States anymore, for example. But has life becoming easier for the normal American over the course of time? Absolutely it has. And anybody who denies that should take a trip back to 1980 and see how their Walkman is working. Let's talk about the cost of food, for example.

1 (48m 43s):
According to Marion Tubi writing over at Human Progress, they started with the 1919 nominal prices of 42 food items ranging from a pound of sirloin steak to a dozen oranges. And they assessed how much time you would have to work in order to buy those things. In 1919 and then forward to today, they say, quote, we find that the unweighted average time price of our foo of our 42 food items fell by 87% between 1919 and 2019. The total time price IE, the nominal price divided by the nominal hourly wage of our basket of 42 food items fell from 27.3 hours of work in 1919 to 3.85 hours in 2019. By the way, there's an excellent way of measuring whether life has gotten easier or harder, not in terms of wage numbers or price numbers, because those are fungible, they're they're changeable due to inflation statistics and the value of the dollar and all the rest of it.

1 (49m 31s):
The question is how long you had to work in order to earn a particular good well, when it comes to food, you had to work 87% less today for the same basket of food for which we've had to work a century ago. Does that mean that libertarian economics betrayed everybody? Doesn't sound like it to me. Sounds like far from it to me. And again, the problem with all of this is that when you throw that out, when you throw out that entire system, you fail to recognize the counter, which is what happens afterward when you get rid of the freedom of the seas. When China does grab those choke points, when the Sue Canal is closed, when we go isolationist, when the United States retreats within our own borders, do you think life gets better for Americans or worse for Americans?

1 (50m 11s):
Like markedly a lot worse for Americans when all those dollar stores disappear 'cause nothing costs a dollar anymore. Do you think it's easier for Americans to live or harder for Americans to live? And by the way, you're gonna have a lot of time left over and money left over to build those beautiful gothic art architecture pieces. That's the real question. America has prospered because America is free when it comes to economics. Free market economics doesn't solve all your problems, but it tends to do a really good job solving the economic part of your problems. Alright guys, the rest of the show is continuing right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be asking a question whether the Senate is gonna get anything done before the end of the year. If you're not a member, become member. Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

Genucel (50m 56s):
I've got a holiday gift idea that's sure to make you the hero of the season. Now we all know the holidays can be a little bit hectic. The shopping, cooking, never ending list of all the things to do. This is why you need the gift of Genu Cell Skincare From now until Christmas, genu Cell's most popular package has a special discount. Just for my listeners@genucell.com slash Shapiro, treat yourself and your loved ones to the absolute best skincare in the world. These troubling forehead wrinkles, fine line skin, redness, sagging jawline, all that disappears right before your eyes. With Genu Cell's most popular Collection Genu Cell Promises immediate effect, you'll see results in less than 12 hours guaranteed, or your money back. Plus, included in every most popular package is your free hyaluronic acid serum for skin hydration. To restore that youthful appearance, genus Cell has sent a ton of products to the office. People are loving it again. My family's been using Genucel products for like a decade. At this point, you deserve to look and feel your best this holiday season. Head on over to genu sell.com/ Shapiro and get this incredible holiday discount. Every order today is instantly upgraded to free express shipping. That's genu sell.com/ Shapiro today. Again, genu sell.com/ Shapiro to get started.