0 (0s):
It's in turn, Sean.

Safeway (2s):
Celebrate the Coziest season with Safeway. They're bringing all the fall flavors to you from pumpkin, everything to caramel apples and all of your seasonal favorites. Make the most of those fireside dinners, game winning touchdowns and warm family gatherings. Visit your neighborhood Safeway today or shop online for easy pickup or delivery. They're here to help you spice season and savor every moment. Sincerely, Safeway.

ExpressVPN (31s):
The Bench Bureau Show is sponsored by ExpressVPN Protect our online privacy today at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (36s):
The first rule of politics is this. Never run directly into a tree while Kicking yourself repeatedly in the Nuts. Republicans in Congress seem to have forgotten this rule. Two weeks ago, representative Matt Gaetz of Florida, along with Limelight seeking compatriots like representative Nancy Mace, decided it was time to get rid of Speaker of the house. Kevin McCarthy. Sure. McCarthy had only been Speaker for approximately five minutes, and sure in that time, McCarthy had defeated Joe Biden in a standoff over a continuing resolution and was preparing to pry concessions out of Senate Democrats that amounted to a cut Indiscretionary spending plus border funding. But it was time for McCarthy to go. Why? Because of the establishment.

1 (1m 12s):
That's why. Now you may be asking, what is the establishment? It sounds bad. Well, apparently defining the establishment, it's a little like asking someone to capture the wind in a bottle or to trap starlight with one's hands. Sometimes the establishment means Republicans who are in favor of fiscal responsibility, like that establishment tote Paul Ryan. Sometimes the establishment means Republicans who want to expand the size and scope of government like that establishment Rhino George W. Bush. Sometimes the establishment means Republicans who are socially conservative like that establishment stooge Mike Pence. Sometimes the establishment means Republicans who are socially liberal, like that establishment pawn Susan Collins. Sometimes the establishment means people who are hawkish on foreign policy like that establishment Dnce Lindsey Graham.

1 (1m 53s):
Sometimes the establishment means people who are dovish on foreign policy like that establishment doofus John Huntsman. Well, the term establishment used to have a meaning. It used to mean a person with power who was too conciliatory to left wing positions. But during Donald Trump's presidency, when he was You know the actual president, we learned that power had nothing to do with it. Donald Trump, the most powerful person on the planet, wasn't the establishment during Trump's presidency. We learned that friendliness to left-wing positions didn't make you establishment either. After all, it was Donald Trump who declared that entitlement programs that the single biggest drivers of America's debt were off the table for discussion. So what makes someone establishment today? The answer Insufficient posturing.

1 (2m 34s):
That's it. That's like the whole thing. Posturing. See, the only way to avoid being labeled establishment these days is to get nothing done, but to yell really, really, really loudly, particularly about the establishment to be anti-establishment is to complain about losing elections while doing nothing to win them. It's to shout that the game is rigged while refusing to even engage in the game at all. Being anti-establishment has turned into just whining. It's about showing what you're against by posturing and then telling your audience that if you posture theatrically enough, wave your hands around a lot, your opposition will just surrender. Passing legislation, nah. Recognizing reality. Doing any of that is surrendered to the opposition. Hell. You can even vote with Democrats to take down a Republican Speaker of the house with no backup plan and you will be considered anti-establishment, all because you yell about the establishment.

1 (3m 22s):
Now, here's the thing that's fun and games in the commentary. After all, in my industry, it's easy to remain ideologically Pure. The beauty of what people like me do for a living is we can speak on what we wish would happen, what the best of all possible worlds would be. We can point out where our politicians are falling short of our principles. We keep pressure on the politicians. That's our job when it comes to Congress. Purism is a recipe for stagnation and disaster. That's because believe it or not, Americans expect that budgets will be passed. They expect that legislation will be crafted. And if you don't do these things, Americans will put you in the minority status in the halls of power permanently. Now, because the Republicans have to deal with a very slim majority in the house, a Democratic Senate and democratic president, any Speaker of the house will have to fall short of perfectly performative opposition.

1 (4m 6s):
Being Speaker of a fractious caucus faced with a minority position in the upper chamber and white House necessarily means cutting deals, not just posturing. That was true for Kevin McCarthy. It would've been true of Steve Scalise. It would've been true of Jim Jordan too. If Matt Gaetz suddenly became Speaker, it would be true for him as well. Our Congress, though, has now been filled with people responding to the incentive structure created for the Commentariat. You get attention and money for posturing, not legislating. You yell about the establishment, IE anyone who does anything in Congress and you win points. So according to Matt Gates, Kevin McCarthy was the establishment And that meant he had to be de fenestrated in favor of, well, someone or no one, or maybe someone who isn't no one.

1 (4m 46s):
We don't actually know actually yet. What we do know is that the Speaker will not be Kevin McCarthy, he of the 78% Heritage Action Score, and it won't be Steve Scalise, he of the 82% Heritage Action Score or Jim Jordan who has the same 82% Heritage Action Score. Maybe it'll be Tom Emer who also has an 82% Heritage Action Score, but probably not, and it probably won't be Patrick McHenry who also has 82% Heritage Action Score. It won't even be Matt Gates who has an 84% Heritage Action score. Actually, it'll probably be no one for a good while longer. Meanwhile, Joe Biden will work to ram through a $105 billion defense package that includes $60 billion for Ukraine and $10 billion for Gaza. All it'll take is peeling off a few Republicans to vote with the Democrats again.

1 (5m 30s):
Now You know who could have helped stop that, who could have proposed, say a single issue spending bill on foreign policy, a Speaker of the house, but we don't have one. But at least the establishment was stopped. That's the important thing. And there's good news if Republicans keep losing the way they did in 2018 and 2020 and 2021 and 2022, they're not gonna have to worry about being establishment because they won't have any power at all. Note that none of this has anything to do with principle. It has nothing to do with conservatism or victory. It has to do instead with applause and cash and fame. But for many people in the Republican Party, that's apparently good enough, it should not be. Republicans can still win. They can still push the ball forward for conservatism.

1 (6m 11s):
But to do that, they need to think about how to win, not merely how to posture and yell and get on tv. They'll need to stop running directly into trees. If they do not, all they'll end up with is a minority position in Congress, a Democrat in the White House and a terrible, terrible ball ache. In just one second, we'll get to Tom McClintock. Tom McClintock, a very conservative member of Congress who's now written an open letter to the people who fenestrated McCarthy, asking them exactly what they're looking for. We'll get to that momentarily. First,

ExpressVPN (6m 37s):
I wanna talk to you about Daily Ware's most trusted privacy partner and premier sponsor of the show Express at VPN. You've heard me talk about how important it's to have AVPN to protect your online privacy, but choosing AVPN you trust is equally as important. I only recommend brands to my listeners that I actually believe in, and I can say with full confidence express. VPN is the best VPN on the market. ExpressVPN does not log your online activity. Lots of cheap or free VPNs make money by selling your data to advertisers. But Express VPN doesn't do that. They even developed a technology that makes their VPN servers incapable of storing any data at all. Express VPN now uses lightweight, a new VPN protocol, they engineered to make user speeds faster than ever. I've tried a lot of VPNs in the past. They can sometimes slow my connection. That's not what happens with ExpressVPN. Also, really, really easy to use, technologically speaking. You push one button to download it, one button to activate it. Now you're protected. Protect yourself with the VPN I use in trust. Visit ExpressVPN dot com slash BEN. Use my link, get three extra months for free. That's E EX P-R-E-S-S vpn.com/ Ben ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben to get those three extra months for free.

Eagle Financial Publications (7m 40s):
Hi, I am Jim Woods with Eagle Financial Publications offering investing insights for the modern investor. Did You know that there's an investment sector that not only tends to survive market downturns but actually thrives? I'm talking of course about energy drinks. Now, don't just take my word for it. The facts speak for themselves. In 2022, the market saw the s and p 500 drop by 19%, but Monster Beverage Corporation increased by 6%. I discovered that one of the same people who helped launch Monster Energy way back when it was called Hansen's Naturals, has a new project that's already making waves around the country and there's still time for you to get in on what I anticipate will be this company's meteoric rise. To learn more about this unique opportunity, visit top beverage stocks.com to download my free report. Once again, that's top beverage stocks.com.

1 (8m 39s):
Okay, so a lot of conservatives in Congress are very frustrated with this spectacle because on Friday, Jim Jordan, he stood for a third consecutive vote on his speakership and he went down inflaming defeat. Not because Jim Jordan is a bad guy, but because this caucus is unbelievably fractious, it is very difficult to attain 217 votes when you only have 221. All it takes is five people to peel off and grandstand and fundraise in order for a Speaker to become impossible. And so Republicans have been operating without a Speaker for the last three weeks. Now, the problem with that, of course, is that it makes it very difficult to consolidate against Joe Biden's positions. So to take a quick example, as I mentioned before, Joe Biden is now proposing a $105 billion supplemental defense package.

1 (9m 20s):
That defense package lumps together a bunch of things that are not alike at all. It lumps together some border security, which is good, and some Taiwan security, which is good, and some Israel security, which is good with $60 billion in Ukraine security, which is hmm, and $10 billion in funding for humanitarian concerns in Gaza, which is super duper bad. Now, if you had a Speaker of the house, because bills generally are supposed to initiate in the house, you could split those apart. You could force Democrats to take an up or down vote on 14 or $20 billion for Israel and then force them to take an up or down vote on the $60 billion that Joe Biden is asking for. For Ukraine, you could force them to take a border, a border vote, just funding the border alone, and at least get them on record as to whether they support that or not.

1 (10m 1s):
You might end up with a crap sandwich, but at the very least you get people on record as to what it is in the bill they actually support. But Republicans can't do that right now because they don't have a Speaker. And this is now irritated. Tom McClintock, who again, is one of the most conservative members of Congress from California, a super immigration hawk, by the way, Tom McClintock. And here is what he wrote. There's a letter to the eight Republicans who voted to get rid of McCarthy, and they voted with all that Democrats to get rid of McCarthy for some unspecified reason, no one can can understand. Here's what he wrote, quote, dear Wayward colleagues, your letter of October 20th in which you graciously offered to Marty yourselves as long as you can get your way, is perhaps the most selfless act in American history. They, they all offered that they were going to vote with the team, but only if they were willing to suffer censure, suspension or removal from the conference.

1 (10m 51s):
So he says this, I was certain our Republican colleagues who refused to vote with the Republican majority would've been inspired by your stirring example of party discipline and loyalty to vote with the team. As you so eloquently phrased it, I was frankly stunned when they did not. I do not understand why a handful of our fellow Republicans couldn't see the simple fairness of the principle to which you have been so unswerving in your devotion heads, I win tails you lose. We should have been moved by your willingness to suffer censure, suspension or removal from the conference to enforce your personal preferences on the overwhelming majority of your unenlightened colleagues. We should have appreciated how you and 206 House Democrats saved us from a Republican Speaker. We truly don't deserve you, but says Tom McClintock to again, this is he's, he's writing this letter to Andy Biggs, Ken Buck, Tim Burchett, Eli Crane, Matt Gaetz, Bob Good, Nancy Mason, Matt Rosendale, who are the people who voted against McCarthy the the first time to take him down.

1 (11m 37s):
They say, your so Tom McClintock says, your sacrifice is not in vain. You have succeeded in replacing the outdated concept of majority rule with an exciting news standard that a Speaker must be elected by 98.2% of the Republican conference. Someday a Messiah will be born onto us who can achieve this miraculous threshold. And on that day, your judgment will be vindicated and you'll be hailed as the geniuses that you are. I think we were all truly humbled to learn that your quote, fidelity to Republican virtues and principles remains unwavering, who could not be moved to tears. To read that you offer yourself sacrifice sincerely and with the hope of unity, with purpose. With this in mind, I modestly suggest you plan your martyrdom in the only way that truly matters. To have the wisdom to see the damage you have done to the country, and to have the courage to set things right before it is too late.

1 (12m 18s):
I enclosed a proposed resolution that perhaps one of you can offer as we begin the fourth week of national paralysis, as the world burns around us, your secret admirer, Tom Linac, and again, the, the basic idea that Tom McClin, he's saying like, what the hell is wrong with you? People? Like, why did you do this? There's no purpose. So Matt Gates for his part, he's not sorry. Why should Matt Gates be sorry? Why not? Why? Like really he's making more money. He's raking it off the fundraising. He says that, he says the establishment a lot, right? That, that term, he loves it. He used it a lot. Well, yesterday, a piece of the Wall Street Journal by Molly Ball says, quote, with the capital and chaos in the speaker's position going on his third week of vacancy, representative Matt Gaetz surveyed the consequences of his actions and declared he had no reg regrets.

1 (12m 60s):
I have extreme confidence. The Florida Republican said that we will have an upgrade at the position. Well, I'm, I'm sure he's confident that that makes perfect sense. Any majority party is bound to have divisions as the Wall Street Journal. But the upheavals that have wracked the house Geo p since January are less a reflection of any coherent faction than one man's singular. Will Gates doesn't have a posse, he isn't a member of the Freedom Caucus. His anti McCarthy Crusades have not been joined by Marjorie Taylor Greene, only half the members who forced, who joined him in forcing out McCarthy or members of a group he assembled to block McCarthy nine months ago. To many Republicans, the hair Jelled Gates is personally responsible for not only sparking the current chaos, but sending a destructive precedent that continues to hobble the body as small minorities assembled to block any Speaker from being elected.

1 (13m 41s):
But he insists he's about outcomes, not headlines. He says he has received a flood of approving feedback from conservatives across the country. Chaos doesn't scare me, Americans a decline does. He wrote on social media late Thursday. Now again, You know Gates suggesting that he ha like as I said before, using your power in order to leverage concessions from a party in favor of conservatism. I'm fine with Chip. Roy used Matt Gaetz's pseudo rebellion back in January. In order to do that, he got a bunch of promises from McCarthy, many of which were good. That's not what's happening here. Matt Gaetz is simply playing a game, and the game is you become more famous. You are on TV more and you raise more money and you raise your profile more.

1 (14m 23s):
If you yell establishment really loud and run into a tree, and this has consequences. This is not a good thing. By the way, there are nine Republicans who are now running for house speakers. This is all gonna go great. They include Tom er of Minnesota already. People like Gates have said they're not gonna vote for er. Representative Kevin Hearn of Oklahoma who chairs the Republican Study Committee, a bunch of the so-called moderates in the Republican caucus, probably will not vote for him. He voted to overturn the results of the 2020 election. A bunch of New York Republicans are not gonna vote for him because of that Representative Pete Sessions of Texas who chaired the House rules and National House Rules Committee and the National Republican Congressional Committee, he said that he would be running for Speaker as well.

1 (15m 4s):
He also voted against certification of the 2020 election. Again, that is gonna be a big split because for a lot of Republicans, in order to demonstrate fey to Donald Trump, he had to vote against certification. But for a lot of Republicans who are in the purple districts, you need to win in order to maintain a majority. They're like, do we really want a Speaker? Who's gonna be saddled with that? Representative Austin Scott of Georgia emerged as a surprise Speaker candidate. Last week. He ran against Jordan in a conference wide vote, and he got almost no votes. Representative Byron Donalds of Florida, who's a relative, he, he's a second term congressman. He's become famous mainly as a, as a Trump acolyte. And he, he says that Biden is not the legitimate president. All the rest of this, again, our moderate Republicans can vote for Byron Donalds.

1 (15m 45s):
I like Byron. Again, I like a lot of these Congress people. I'm just pointing out that when you have an extraordinarily diverse caucus, which is what the Republicans have, and by the way, what Republicans have to have in order to maintain a majority, the Speaker position cannot be a purist. It's not the, it's not in the operative incentive structure of the game. Other names include Representative Jack Bergman of Michigan, representative Mike Johnson of Louisiana, representative Dan Meuser of Pennsylvania, representative Gary Palmer of Alabama. Do any of these people actually think they're gonna be Speaker? Very, very, very unlikely. So while Republicans are busy, meaning themselves in the groin, actual serious things are happening around the world. And it would be good to have a Republican leadership class capable of doing something except stepping on its own.

1 (16m 29s):
It's unbelievable. And at a certain point, you gotta stop jumping on rakes. Guys like grow, grow up. It's a serious world out there. And shouting at walls and bouncing off of bouncing off spike filled Indiana Jones Tunnels is not a, is not a genius idea as it turns out. And just a second, we'll get to the serious things happening in the world.

Balance Of Nature (16m 49s):
First balance of Nature fruits and veggies are a great way to make sure that you are getting essential nutritional ingredients every single day. Balance of Nature uses an advance called vacuum process that encapsulates fruits and veggies into whole food supplements without sacrificing their natural antioxidants. The capsules are completely void of additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticides, or added sugar. The only thing in balance of nature's fruits and veggie capsules are well You know fruits and veggies. There's never been an easier way to make sure you're getting your daily dose of fruits and veggies. Balance of Nature sent a bunch of fruit and veggie capsules down to the studio for the team to try. Everybody feels better, everybody feels healthier. I love Balance of Nature because it helps make my busy schedule much more manageable. Producer Zach brings his balance of Nature fruits and veggie capsules everywhere he goes, he takes them daily and they make him feel a lot better about life and and about his job, which is good since we mistreat him regularly. Here. Go to balance of Nature dot com. Use promo Coach SHAPIRO for 35% off your first order as a preferred customer. That's balance of Nature dot com promo. Coach Shapiro, get 35% off your very first preferred order. Again, I don't like veggies. They, they bother me. They're, they're God's revenge on humanity for our sinfulness. But Balance of Nature helps correct that because I can still get the nutrition I need. Need balance of Nature dot com promo Shapiro. Get 35% off your first preferred order.

Beam (17m 53s):
Did You know that poor sleep can cause weight gain, mood issues, poor mental health, lower productivity? I mean, I know that because sometimes I don't get the sleep that I need. I'm sure that that's true for a lot of our listeners. Well, sleep is the foundation of our mental and physical health and performance. Having a consistent nighttime routine is non-negotiable. If you are struggling with sleep, you need to check out beam beam's. Top Selling Beam Dream has a new formula. Dream contains a powerful all natural blend of reishi magnesium. Elian in and epi genin to help you fall. Asleep, stay Asleep and wake up fresh. Just mix beam dream into hot water or milk stir or froth and enjoy before bedtime. Today my listeners get a special discount on Beam Dream Powder. Their bestselling healthy hot cocoa for sleep with no added sugar. Now available in delicious flavors like cinnamon, cocoa, Chocolate, peanut butter and mint chip. Better Sleep has never tasted better. Our office is more energetic 'cause a bunch of people at the office have been using Beam Dream. You can do the same. If you wanna try Beam's bestselling Dream powder, get up to 40% off For a limited time when you go to shop beam.com/ BEN. Use code Ben at checkout. That's shop b eam m.com/ BEN. Use code BEN for up to 40% off. That's shop beam.com/ Ben. Use code BEN for up to 40% off.

1 (18m 55s):
Okay, so while the Republicans are busy kneeing themselves directly in the groin repeatedly, the world continues to spin and, and bad things continue to happen. So over the course of the weekend, Hamas in the Gaza Strip, they decided that they were going to make a PR move. Now, this PR move was designed for two purposes. One is to try and buy time to stop an Israeli ground invasion into the Gaza Strip and to try and get the media back on side. So the media have been itching, itching to get off Israel's side after the largest massacre of juices, the Holocaust, and get back onto the well moral parody cycle of violence. Hamas really does have some legitimate concerns, train like they want back on that train so bad they can taste it and Hamas knows that. So that's purpose number one.

1 (19m 35s):
Purpose number two is that Qatar, which is a regime in the Middle East that is very heavily aligned with Iran and is sort of a terrorist home base for negotiations. They usually put their political wing in Qatar. So for example, when the United States was negotiating with the Taliban, they were doing it in Qatar. Qatar has a home base for Hamas. So Ismail Haniya, who's the political leader of Hamas, he's staying at a five star hotel in Qatar. While Gaza is getting bombed, he's over there. So Qatar was starting to get significant outside pressure as they should to turn Hamas over to the Americans and to stop playing FSE with terrorist groups. And so Qatar is making the claim that they are the home of negotiations and the negotiations will only be fruitful if they're sort of left to their own devices.

1 (20m 16s):
So Hamas did a bit of a favor to Qatar, which makes sense 'cause Qatar also passes money to to Hamas and, and Hamas released two American hostages over the weekend. They did this late on Friday afternoon. The two American hostages happened to be li when I say happened, I mean they, they were released partially because of this. They were related to a reporter foreign NBC news, which again is a way of trying to buy off the media here was, here was the NBC coverage of the release of the two host. Remember, remember there's still 222 of them remaining, including babies.

4 (20m 51s):
On Monday, the group posted a video of a woman and made an offer to release foreign hostages. A senior Hamas official then told NBC news. The group is willing to release all civilians and dual nationals with a condition

5 (21m 6s):
To release all the civilians, including the foreigners.

4 (21m 11s):
All of the civilians, including the Israeli civilians.

5 (21m 16s):
Yes, including the Israeli,

4 (21m 18s):
I'm sorry. You are you, can I just clarify this? You say you're willing to release all of the civilians, including the Israeli nationals if there is a stopping

5 (21m 26s):
Yes, including the Israeli civilians and all the foreigners.

4 (21m 30s):
And what are you asking for in order to do that? Do you want the airstrikes to stop? Is that the condition

5 (21m 37s):
To stop the aggression? How can we technically, logistically it's impossible to do it

4 (21m 44s):
So that our, our viewers might hear that and say that this offer doesn't mean anything. That if you're not willing to carry it out, then it doesn't mean anything.

5 (21m 54s):
How, well, if you stop the aggression, it can be implemented over the next hour

1 (21m 59s):
Or you could just release all the hostages like right now. And NBC news covers it. And then Israel won't stop the aggression. They won't. So it's really Israel's fault that the hostages are being held there. Hamas knows exactly what it's doing. Hamas knows that if it releases a couple of hostages every so often, they got 222 of them. If they release a couple of hostages every so often, then maybe the world will hold the Israel back from going into the Gaza Strip. Now, as we'll see, the Biden administration is sending mixed messages on all of this. And the PR war is part and parcel of all of this. Hamas is Hamas committed the worst atrocity in decades, and now they're trying to buy all of that back and make everybody forget about that. Because here's the deal, even if they released all the hostages tomorrow, still 1500 dead Jews who are butchered and mutilated babies murdered in their cribs and all the rest of it.

1 (22m 44s):
And Hamas is basically expecting that the world will then tell Israel to stop. That's the math here. And Hamas is trying to run a PR op. The PR op is we'll release hostages every so often, and then the world will put pressure on the Israelis to stop and leave us in power. Now the Biden administration for its part is sending some mixed signals. So on the one hand, they are correctly suggesting that the Hamas terrorists have to release all the hostages unconditionally. That's what Blinken said yesterday.

6 (23m 11s):
Well, first Christian, we've been working on this from day one, engaged with different partners in the region, sending clear messages about the need to immediately and unconditionally release all of the hostages. And it was gratifying to, to see that Judith and Natalie Ronan were released yesterday. I had a chance to speak to them as well. They were, they sounded strong of mind, strong of spirit, but there remain many others and we're hopeful that that more released. But the bottom line is this, they need to be released each and every one of them now unconditionally.

1 (23m 48s):
Okay? So that is the right message, obviously. But even if all the hostages are released, Hamas still has to go. And that's the game that Hamas is playing right now. Now, the reason Hamas has to go, of course, is because what they're attempting to do is obscure. What just happened a couple of weeks ago, Israel has now done something that it has never done. They've, they, they held a press conference today where they had all members of the media in the room and they showed them the full GoPro foot footage from various Hamas terrorists showing exactly what they did to Israeli civilians on October 7th. And it's horrific stuff. I mean, truly horrific. Some of it's been described to the general, to the general public. Here are two z Zaka is a, they're first responders in Israel.

1 (24m 29s):
Here are two Zaka volunteers were calling the atrocities that they saw on the ground when they went into these Israeli areas that had been ravaged by Hamas.

8 (24m 38s):
We went in, the first house we saw was a couple father and mother sitting there underneath on the floor. They were underneath. Now they were head down, hands tied to the back. On the other side of the dining room was seven year old show boy and a girl, I would say about six years old, sitting just against the, the parents hands tied to the back.

8 (25m 27s):
Same position. The bodies will torture while now start to use imagination who was tortured before, who saw if this was the door, if this was a purpose, if this was the children looking at the parents being tortured the parent scene. And when I say torture, I'll say missing body pieces.

1 (26m 4s):
Okay, so these descriptions, they, they, they just go on and on. I mean, eyes torn out, fingers torn out, all the rest of this sort of stuff. Israel has a forensic pathology center and they, they've gone through all the evidence now they're making it open to the media. And what they found were people with charred hands, with marks revealing where the victim's hands were bound behind their backs with metal Wire before they were burned alive. One of the images in the slideshow was a completely charred mass of flesh, which at first glance could not even be seen as ever having been belonging to a human being. It was only after the CT scan was done of the charred flesh that experts could see what exactly they were looking at. And it was a parent and a child bound together, burned alive by Hamas terrorists. Two spinal columns were in the CT scan, one an adult spinal column and one a child's spinal column.

1 (26m 49s):
They were bound together by metal wires in a final embrace before that were set on fire. According to Chen. And Dr. Kugel, who's the head of the National Center for Forensic Medicine in Tel Aviv, he said, the proportion of bodies we've received to our chart is high. Many have gunshot wounds in their hands showing they put their hands up to their faces. In defense, many were burned alive in their homes. You know they were burned alive because their suit in their trachea in their throats, meaning they were still breathing when they were set on fire. Kugel explained that the age range of the victim's spans from three months to 80 or 90 years old. Many bodies, including those babies are without heads asked if they were decapitated. Kugel answered yes, although he admits that given the circumstances, it's difficult to ascertain whether they were decapitated before or after death, as well as whether they were beheaded by a knife or had their heads blown off by RPG, which is really the big question.

1 (27m 36s):
You're seeing this from the Holocaust deniers today. Well, were they really beheaded with a knife? You know they're probably still alive. They weren't beheaded if they were just, if there was a baby who had his head blown off by an Rrp G obviously a very different story. The reason that I'm bringing this up again, the reason Israel also is bringing this up again, is to remind people that even if the hostages are turned over, Hamas has to go, Israel has to do what it has to do to get rid of Hamas. And as we'll see, the west is already sending mixed signals because this is what many in the west do. They refuse to see the evil in front of them, and they refuse to understand how the Middle East works, which is that if you do not obliterate the evil today, it rises up and hits you tomorrow. Israel for its part has been intensifying the bombing on multiple fronts and preparing for this Gaza ground operation. There's still significant disagreement apparently within Israeli circles over whether to go in on the ground right now or whether to wait it out to essentially keep facilitating the movement of Gaza civilian south so that they can then hit the tunnels.

1 (28m 27s):
Because the last thing Israel would like to do is put 2000 soldiers in harm's way in a, in a highly dense urban environment that looks much like Mogadishu. According to the Wall Street Journal, Israel ramped up its bombing of targets on three fronts, including a rare airstrike in the West Bank. As humanitarian aid trickled into the Gaza Strip in an international effort to ease the hardship, the conflict has wr on the 2 million civilians trapped there. Now again, one of the things that's truly amazing about what's happening in the Gaza Strip right now is that I have never seen in my entire life a war in which the party that was aggressed against is now responsible for the civilians of the party. That is, that is the aggressor party during World War ii. Do you remember a lot of conversation about German civilians and how the air, how the allies had to be very, very careful of what they did in terms of killing the Nazis in terms of German civilians, there wasn't a lot of talk about that.

1 (29m 15s):
Was there even a lot of talk about that after nine 11? Do you remember all the talk about we need to make sure that we have humanitarian convoys getting into Kabul during, during the post nine 11 period? I don't remember that either. When it comes to this, all of a sudden it's Israel's responsibility to deal with civilians that are really under the auspices of Hamas. That, again, is a game that's being played by the international community in order to, I would assume, attempt to smuggle in more resources to Hamas, which has been stealing these resources for literally decades. At this point, international efforts, according to the Wall Street Journal, remain under way to free hostages in Gaza and prevent the fight from escalating into a regional conflict. As we'll. See, the, the United States is trying to do that by both bribing and also by threatening. In northern Israel, a bunch of northern Israeli towns have been evacuated.

1 (29m 58s):
Kerry Shamona, which has 22,000 people, was fully evacuated in the northern front because of the possibility that Hezbollah attempts to get in the war and start firing rockets into the north of Israel. That of course, would mean a major escalation. Israel also is taking the gloves off in a way that it, it should have for the last several decades. It's taking the gloves off with regard to terror sites. So for example, over the weekend, Israel struck a mosque compound in the West Bank. They did that because they knew that weapons were being hidden in the mosque and a major terror attack was being planned from there. So they hit the mosque. This, of course, is the reason why Palestinian terrorists like to hide in mosque. 'cause then they get to claim that Israel is striking religious sites. It's their very favorite thing to do.

1 (30m 39s):
Meanwhile, again, the United States is, is sort of sending a little bit of mixed signals. So Tony Blinken, Secretary of state, he said, we're concerned at the possibility that Iranian proxies are gonna escalate the war against the United States. Well, here's the reality. They should be a lot more worried about escalating the war against the United States. Then we should be worried about them escalating the war against us. And just to be perfectly frank about this, if they fire on a on American warships, everyone in Hezbollah will be dead You know the United States is not a power to be trifled with. And the fact that we are constantly kind of pussyfooting around this, like, oh, well You know what we're worried about Iranian proxies escalating against us. They should be a lot more worried about us escalating against them. Considering the United States military is the most powerful fighting force in the history of the world, bar none.

1 (31m 19s):
We have a military budget that is the rest of the world's combined times two. So they like, if Hezbollah decides that they want to get it on, by the way, this is the message we should be conveying to them. It's like, you wanna do this, do you really wanna cross down line? Do you really wanna do that? Because it'll be a giants foot against a mosquito man. Here's Tony Blinken though again, the mixed signals here are are pretty, pretty remarkable.

9 (31m 43s):
Tension is very high in the region. Are you changing your security posture? Are you pulling any US personnel out of the area?

6 (31m 51s):
Margaret, we are concerned at the, the possibility of Iranian proxies escalating their attacks against our own personnel, our own people. We're taking every measure to make sure that we can Defend them and if necessary respond decisively.

1 (32m 9s):
So I mean, I'm glad if necessary response, again, this is very easy. The president of the United States in his last speech, he should have said, we don't want you to escalate. You should not want you to escalate. 'cause if you escalate, you'll be dead. I And that, that is how it works in the Middle East and pretending otherwise he's really, really, really done. By the way, Israel is, is saying some of that sort of stuff. So near Barco, who is a member of the, the government right now is Israel's minister of the economy. He warned Iran that if they get directly involved, Israel will cut the head of the snake off, which is what Israel has to convey. If they don't convey that, then Iran will in fact get in. And it is worthwhile noting here that there is in fact a, a common interest, not necessarily among Iran, but but even among Iran and not escalating this thing right now, the math is this.

1 (32m 55s):
Iran has a bunch of proxies. Those proxies include the who these in Yemen, they include Hezbollah in the north of Israel. They include the Syrian government, they include the Lebanese regime, which is Hezbollah. And they include Hamas. Hamas was not supposed to succeed this way. The entire goal of this terrorist attack was probably to kill 50 Jews and kidnap five. And instead it killed 1500 Jews and kidnap 200. And because of that, Hamas is now an existential danger. And so Iran would prefer not to have the night on its chessboard knocked off the chessboard. But that is what's going to happen. And so Iran now has to consider whether it prefers to lose its night in the Gaza Strip plus another night in Northern Israel slash Southern Lebanon in Hezbollah. 'cause if it escalates, that's where this is going or whether it just concedes the loss.

1 (33m 37s):
So they're, they're desperately trying to spin their way out of Hamas, losing control of the Gaza Strip. And the only question is why the West is gonna prevent Israel from doing what it needs to do in the Gaza Strip. I think I have faith that the United States is not gonna do that because again, I think everybody has an interest in seeing Hamas fault, including by the way Egypt. How do You know this? Because actually over the weekend, the IDF accidentally hit an Egyptian outpost and Egypt immediately said, we get it. It happens. Fog of war. So for all the talk about how the entire Arab world is united against Israel, that's not really true. Basically of the Iranian proxies who are united against Israel and the Sunnis who are like, if Hamas gets taken out, we're, we can't say that we're happy about it, but we're pretty happy about it.

1 (34m 16s):
We're, we're pretty much okay with all of that. The United States is seeking to buy another way, which is buy off Hamas, right? Try, try and pay off these guys. Now, this is a strategy that is doomed to failure. It's a very dumb strategy. You, you, you cannot buy off Iran. You cannot buy off Hamas. You'll be giving them money and they will use it for the worst possible purposes. And yet, and yet you are seeing again, this attempt to win Arab support by somehow looking as though you're putting clamps on the state of Israel. When in reality what the United States should be saying to Israel is you do What, you need to do, and we will push everybody else off the ball. But if you appear to be holding Israel back, if you appear to be You know, trying to tell Israel to back off, then what you're really doing is you're providing fodder for the so-called Arab Street.

1 (34m 59s):
'cause we keep saying to Israel over and over and over, you guys don't, don't violate human rights, don't violate then you are playing directly into the narrative, which is that there is some sort of human rights comparison between the state of Israel and its enemies. We'll get to that momentarily

Policy Genius (35m 10s):
first, everybody in life insurance is just an important thing to have. I have lots of insurance on my life, makes me feel a lot more comfortable as a human being that God forbid something happens to me, my family at least financially is taken care of. Policy genius makes it easy to compare life insurance quotes from top companies and find your lowest price that a license agents work for you, not the insurance companies. This means they don't have an incentive to recommend one insurer over another so you can actually trust their guidance. There are no added fees. Your personal information is kept private. It's very satisfying to check this off your list. you don't have to think about it again. Now you just know that again, there's a safety net available in case god forbid something happens to you. Since life insurance typically gets more expensive as you age, every day is higher cost. So you should really go do it right now with PolicyGenius. You can find life insurance policy starting at just 292 bucks per year for a million dollars in coverage. Some options offer same day approval and avoid those unnecessary medical exams. Your loved ones deserve that financial safety net and you deserve a smarter way to find and buy it. Go to policygenius.com/ SHAPIRO or click the link in the description, Get your free life insurance quote. see how much you could save. That's policygenius.com/ SHAPIRO. Once again, policygenius.com/ Shapiro.

Jeremy's Chocolate (36m 11s):
Also, are you still getting your Chocolate from MO companies? Don't do that. Halloween is coming up. Instead get Jeremy's Chocolate right now. You can save big with 30% off. Get great deals on our famous he him with Nuts and she her nut list because whether it's Halloween or not, Jeremy's, Chocolate knows. Not everyone can be a mummy. Ah, it's a, it's a pun. Get yours in full size or our shareable microaggression size perfect for giving out to friends, family, and neighbors. Time is running out. Today is the last chance to stock up now in time for Halloween. Go to jeremy's Chocolate dot com today.

1 (36m 39s):
So again, the west is sending these mixed messages in an attempt to sort of contain things. Now, the way that you actually contain things in the Middle East is you say, if you step over the line, I'll hit you so hard that I will bomb you forward into the stone age. That's What. you actually say in the Middle East if you wish things to remain contained because that happens to be the reality. And this has been true for literally all of Middle Eastern history force and threat of force are the coins of the realm in the Middle East. They have always been that and the West is too shy these days. And so the West is like, well, what if we, what if we You know talk about human rights? Do you think that Hamas caress about human rights? You think Iran cares about human rights for that matter, even the countries that we're allied with? Do you think Saudi Arabia cares deeply about human rights? I think not. I think not. They care about realistic interests.

1 (37m 20s):
They care about what they can do. That's what they care about. And yet you're seeing kind of this weird push from the West, you all about human rights and encouraging Israel to follow the rules of war. Understand the entire basis for the terrorist opposition to Israel is trying to get Israel to quote unquote obey the rules of war in ways that no other country would while violating the rules of war yourself. This is the way this works. So Joe Biden again, it it's this sort of stuff that it, it's why having a a doddering president is not a good idea. And again, Biden has not been horrible on this situation thus far, but he's just not good at this. I mean, he's not with it. So over the weekend, he was asked whether Israel should delay the ground invasion as he was walking up the stairs to Air Force one trying not to trip.

1 (38m 1s):
And, and he said yes, which like, dude, that is a confidential military discussion that you are having with the Israeli government. That is not something you should be spilling to the press. That's just buying time for Hamas, obviously

10 (38m 14s):
American, but no, now the

1 (38m 28s):
White. Now, well, Israel laid the ground vision so he can blow the hostage out. He didn't hear the full question. Okay, so then they tried to walk it back, quote, the president was far away. He didn't hear the full question. The question sounded like, would you like to see more hostages released? He wasn't commenting on anything else. Well, maybe that's true because I mean, the guy is 80 or maybe he should shut up when he is walking up the stairs and people are yelling que like he's perfectly happy ignoring most questions as he walks away from the press. Why this one? Tony Blinken then tried to walk that one back again. These sorts of mixed signals do have ramifications in real bloody terms.

9 (38m 57s):
Have you asked the Israeli government to delay in order to give you more time to broker the release of these hostages?

6 (39m 4s):
First step back for a second because it's important to remember what happened. It's incredible how quickly that gets lost because it was only a couple of weeks ago that Hamas invaded Israel with its terrorist fighters and slaughtered, and I use that that word very deliberately slaughtered so many people again, men, women, young children, babies, old people, you name it. And they continue to reign rockets down on Israel. When I was there a few days ago, we were in the bo we were, we had to take shelter a couple of times because of understood common rockets from amass. So my point is this, no country, no country can be expected to tolerate this, to live with this.

6 (39m 46s):
And as we said from the start, Israel has both the, the right and even the obligation not only to Defend itself, but to try to make sure that to the best of its ability, this can't happen again.

1 (39m 58s):
Now the problem is that the opposing point of view, the sort of, but is it, but isn't it a cycle of that, that point of view is incredibly strong in the State Department. So much so that Blinken had to have a listening session with all his little buddies over at the State Department, those morons, which is an amazing thing. Like first of all, what is This? isn a college campus? You have to have listening sessions with your employees not having a listening session with my employees over whether to support terrorism or not. That's absurd. It's absurd. Okay, so Blink tried to walk it back, but then you have the mixed message that is coming outta the Biden administration, which is, but there's so many good people on every side, on both sides, you might say there are good people on, on both sides, you might say. So Lloyd Austin, the Secretary of defense who's been very strong in saying Israel should be able to Defend itself.

1 (40m 38s):
Then he keeps adding this tag. Israel has to follow the laws of war You know You know what I noticed? I noticed that the invasion of Iraq cost hundreds of thousands of civilian lives, hundreds of thousands if not a million civilian lives, I noticed. And there wasn't a whole hell of a lot of talk about this sort of stuff. And Iraq, by the way, had not committed a direct terrorist assault on the United States of America. But here's Lloyd Austin lecturing the Israelis about how they have to be, they have to follow the rules of war. Hamas literally slaughters babies in their cribs and then takes other babies captive. But it's, it's Israel that has to continually be warned about following the laws of war. This kind of, this kind of language is nonsense

11 (41m 17s):
To your point. Each target, John needs to be assessed carefully assessed. and we need to do everything we can to make sure that civilians are not, are not injured or threatened. So the right thing to do is to make sure that we account for civilians in our planning, that we provide corridors for, for their movement out of the battle space, that we are not, not destroying protected properties. And where possible, and I think Israelis have been doing this for some time. Again, they're a professional force and we will encourage, continue to encourage them to make sure that they're doing things in accordance with the law of war.

1 (42m 3s):
Yeah, they need everybody looking over their shoulder and telling them to do things in accordance with the law of war. That's the big thing. This sort of delusional cycle of violence. Israel has to be encouraged to do the right thing. Meanwhile, they face down You know a murderous terrorist group that it calls for the genocide of all Jews all over the planet. That sort of stuff has consequences. Joe Biden did a lot of this last week when he gave his address where he talked about how the Israelis had to be warned over and over not to take revenge like nine 11 And, that they had to be warned about the, the, the mistakes of nine 11. The Israelis have to be told about human rights. They have to be lectured like small school children about human rights. Meanwhile, the people they're facing are You know raping women and taking them captive. So Biden over the weekend, he tweeted out a, this is the, the Western attempt to go back to sleep.

1 (42m 44s):
The two state solution is dead. The reason the two state solution is dead is not because Israel wants it dead. If Israel could have handed over control of the Gaza trip to Egypt, it would do it today. If Israel could hand over control of Janine to Jordan, it would do it today. Israel has no interest in governing these areas because Israel does not wanna govern these areas. They're violent and very difficult to run. And yet the reason that two state solution is dead is because of that. It's because these areas are very violent and very difficult to run because they keep electing terror groups, for example, and have heavy levels of support for the terror groups. We can all pretend away that the civilian population in the Palestinian areas of the West Bank, that these are full western liberal minded people. It's a lie. It's not true.

1 (43m 24s):
You can pretend that about the people in the Gaza Strip also a lie, also not true. And so when you say there ought to be a peace process with quote unquote the Palestinian people, the only people you can negotiate with are the representatives of the Palestinian people. So far in history. They've had the following representatives, the Palestinian authority led by Yassar Arafat, followed by the Palestinian authority, led by the Holocaust, MABAS, Islamic Jihad National terrorist group, and Hamas an actual terrorist group. That's their entire leadership class. So what are you jabbing about a two state solution for? We'll get to the wages of that in a moment because again, it sets up this false binary that makes it impossible for Israel to do what it needs to do to preserve its own security.

Helix (43m 59s):
First, I've been talking about my Helix mattress for years. I've had that Helix sleep mattress for what a decade at this point. It really is fantastic. I sleep great on it. My wife sleeps great on it. And now Helix is introducing their newest, most high-end collection. The Helix Elite, Helix Elite harnesses years of extensive mattress expertise to offer a truly elevated sleep experience. The Helix Elite Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for specific sleep positions and firmness preferences. Go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben, check out the new collection today. If you're nervous about buying a mattress online, you don't have to be. Helix has a sleep quiz. It matches your body type and sleep preferences to the perfect mattress because why would you buy a mattress made for someone else? I took that Helix quiz. I match with a firm but breathable mattress, which is what I need if it's too soft to get back pain. If it's too warm, I can't sleep. Helix is offering 20% off all mattress orders and two free pillows for my listeners today, go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. Their best offer yet, it's not gonna last long with Helix. Better sleep starts right now. They've got a 10 year warranty can try it out for a hundred nights for its free. You got nothing to lose. Head on over to Helix sleep.com/ Ben today and get 20% off all mattress orders plus two free pillows for my listeners to get started.

1 (45m 1s):
So again, what should have happened with the Hamas attack is the West waking up to what the threat is And, that would have a bunch of consequences in terms of the Middle East situation. It would remind the West that the so-called Free Palestine movement is in fact a pro terroror movement that hates the West and seeks its destruction. That is a reality. You can pretend that away or you can't, but it would mean that Israel would be far less pressured to make concessions to terrorist groups in terms of what the West would do. It would mean that the West would seriously think about restricting its immigration protocols. I mean the, the number of radicalized Islamic immigrants from Northern Africa and the Middle East over the course of the last 20 years in Europe is astonishing, which is why you are seeing giant, giant rallies across the West.

1 (45m 43s):
Those, those are million, those are not mainly left-wing people. There's some left-wing hangers on who are too stupid to recognize that the first people who get beheaded if the radical Muslims take over are them. But the reason that you're seeing, for example, a 100,000 person pro kamas rally in London, that is not because you have a bunch of people in London who are moderate Muslims who are just a little upset about the human rights situation in the Middle East. That's 'cause you have imported hundreds of thousands throughout Europe, millions of radicalized Islamists who hate the West. I mean that, that, that's just a reality. And you can pretend again, you can pretend that away, but it's really stupid to, you're gonna pay the price for it. And here's, by the way, what the video looked like from London.

1 (46m 24s):
I mean, just London covered, blanketed a hundred thousand people protesting in favor of Kamas. According to the Guardian. They said thousands. But look at the size of this crowd. I mean, it's astonishingly large. The Metropolitan Police estimated a hundred thousand people participated in the protest

12 (46m 43s):
To Palestine Occupation

1 (46m 45s):
Is a, they'll have signs that say Free Palestine

12 (46m 48s):
Occupation is a primary free

1 (46m 51s):
Palestine. By that they mean, by the way, like all of Israel should be obliterated. And again, these are not all You know nice left wingers who just went to the wrong university. A huge percentage of these people are new immigrants from the Middle East and from Northern Africa who hate Jews like really, really hate Jews. And that starts in the Middle East and pretending that it doesn't is a serious mistake. So Joe Biden, for example, yesterday, he tweeted out and strategically he's trying to, he's trying to have it both ways. He's trying to say Israel should d Defend itself, but also the people that it's fighting with very often. They're very nice people. They're everyone's nice if we could only just come together. So you tweet it out. Israel has the right to Defend itself. We must make sure they have what they need to protect their people today and always, that should be the end of the tweet.

1 (47m 31s):
That should be, but it doesn't. It goes on for two more paragraphs, quote. At the same time, prime Minister Netanyahu and I have discussed how Israel must operate by the laws of war. Again, there's this lecturing, hectoring tone here. Like, if we don't tell Israel to stop this, then they will be horribly genocidal. That means protecting civilians in combat as best they can. We can't ignore the humanity of innocent Palestinians who only wanna live in peace. That's why I secured an agreement for the first shipment of humanitarian assistance, for assistance for Palestinian civilians in Gaza, and we cannot give up on a two-state solution. So first of all, that is a wild non-sequitur. The, the, the end where he says, we can't give up on a with whom. You're talking about obl, obliterating Hamas, a terrorist group. What the hell are you talking about as far as ignoring the humanity of innocent, innocent Palestinians who only wanna live in peace?

1 (48m 12s):
There are two things that are happening there. One, he's thrusting the responsibility for civilians in Gaza, not on the legitimate government of Gaza, the Hamas, right? If, if the United States is attacked by foreign power, the Russians You know his responsibility. It is for safeguarding the civilians in the United States, America, our government. That's our responsibility. It's not Russia's responsibility. We would hope that they follow the Geneva conventions, but we have to assume that they might not. And so it'd be our job to make sure that our civilians are safeguarded, that they're provided for. That's what any legit, that's literally the job of the government. But in the Gaza Strip, apparently it doesn't apply. You get it both ways. It to be a terrorist group and you have no responsibility for your own civilian population. Also, the suggestion beneath all of this is that again, Hamas is just a few bad apples, just a few people who are bad apples, that there's no actual, which is why a two-state solution is possible.

1 (48m 57s):
After all, if it turns out that Hamas is a few bad apples, and the Palestinian authority is a few bad apples, and Islamic jihad is a few bad apples. That then really, and Lions den is a few bad apples, and Hezbollah is a few. They're just a few bad apples. Every, I mean, yeah, a lot of them, but, but they're really just a few bad. So peace is still possible. Justin Trudeau a moron. He tweeted similarly along these lines. He, he tweeted out, quote, as members of the Palestinian Arab and black communities gathered for prayer yesterday. I wanted them to know this. We know you are worried and hurting. We're here for you. We will not stop advocating for civilians to be protected and for international law to be upheld. Yes, that's, I can think of a few civilians who are, who are hurt. In fact, I can think of civilians who are burned alive by Hamas.

1 (49m 38s):
I can think of them. But this sort of moral equivalence language is what people are comfortable with. Now, I just wanna point out here that these so-called peace partners here are not peace partners, both governmentally as well as yes, the civilian population in Judea and Samaria in the Gloss Bank. There is no evidence whatsoever that they are seeking a negotiated peace deal in which the state of Israel gets to continue to exist. The evidence does not exist for that. It is literally non-existent. The same thing is true in the Gaza Strip here, for example, is a Palestinian authority minister yesterday, okay? The, the Palestinian Authority. These are the so-called moderates. These are the people that Joe Biden is calling up. This guy is the head of the military wing of the Palestinian authority. It's called fta. And here he is. What he says in English is in the name of the Fatah movement.

1 (50m 18s):
We only want national unity. That would be national unity with Hamas, by the way, here he was yesterday, And they're firing guns in the air. They seem super peaceful. I feel like a two-state solution is imminent, don't you? Meanwhile, by the way, again, the lie that Gaza civilians are entirely disconnected from Hamas, this does not mean by the way that Israel should target civilians. They're not. It doesn't mean that they shouldn't attempt to minimize civilian casualties, which they are. This is why they're pushing people south toward where the electricity and water are still running. By the way, shops are still open in southern Gaza. Well, what it does mean is that this, this lie that basically it's a few people at the top where the problem and the rest of the population, they are just western liberals.

1 (51m 4s):
So we can either import them into the west or we can force Israel to make concessions that ends with the Palestinian state. Because Afro, aren't we all the same underneath? It's a lie. It's not true. For example, this is video from the Gaza, the, the Hamas attack from Gaza on the Israeli moha, these areas that killed 1500 Jews. And this video, you're going to see a lot of civilians. It turns out it was not just card carrying members of Hamas, heavily armed and uniformed. It turns out it was a crapload of civilians. Here's some of the video. Here are people walking around by the open border of Gaza ssa. These are all the gazen civilians. They look like civilians. There're cell. These are members of Hamas and civilians who are riding on their trucks.

1 (51m 45s):
People celebrating next to members of Hamas civilians, some of whom are on crutches, going into Jewish areas to steal things. So many civilians, people riding bikes, kids' bikes directly out of the Jewish areas, stealing things. These are all of the uninvolved Gaza and civilians. Again, the, the, this sort of attempt to create a hard ideological distinction between the Gaza population and kamas is ridiculous. The idea that, again, there's an ideological distinction that can be made such that Israel must make concessions, and that's really what needs to happen here. And. that, and again, that the West should accept hundreds of thousands of Palestinian refugees, for example. That's gonna work out well for the United States or for Europe. That's ridiculous. By the way, You know who plays this for all it's worth, members of Hamas.

1 (52m 26s):
So for example, this is a video of mem. These are female members of Hamas, and this is the first is from October 7th, celebrating the massacre. These are two women in Hamas gear, celebrating the massacre, wearing full on Hamas gear and carrying weapons and firing into the air. And in the second video below, you'll see the acting for the cameras. When the Israeli bombs fall on Gaza, this is the, of course, they know the game. It's called Civilian on, civilian Off, right? Civilian, civilian off. When it's time to celebrate rockets falling on Israeli civilian on throw on, throw on the civilian garb.

1 (53m 6s):
The minute that the Western cameras arrive Up top, that's them celebrating as Jews are murdered and down. This is them. This is them weeping. Weeping. We, oh, well, I can't believe the Israeli atrocities. Oh, it's tons of videos like this emerging from Gaza. Tons of them. Ano another one. Here's an, here's another one of a Gaza civilian shouting Alahu Akbar. As the rockets are fired from Gaza into Israel and then crying because of the Israelis You know fighting back.

15 (53m 42s):
Aah, come on. Aah.

1 (53m 46s):
That guy's very happy about the Rockets being fired into Israel and flash forward. I can't believe the atrocities that are taking place. I just, I can't believe it. It's just, it's so, it's so devastating. So this is the guy they show on BBC, right? I mean, this is the kind of person they show on BBC crying from the inside of a hospital. What they don't show is the first half where he's celebrating the rockets being fired into Israel. This sort of double message is what continues to allow the West to blind itself on a routine basis, just constantly blinding itself. By the way, You know, while we are trying to get the, the humanitarian aid into Gaza, it is worth noting here that Hamas is literally, literally right now, according to Anthony Blinken, preventing American citizens in Gaza, not the, not the kidnapped like Arab Americans who are in Gaza.

1 (54m 38s):
Hamas is trying to stop them from leaving. So we're smuggling them aid, and at the same time, Hamas is trying to prevent the American civilians from leaving. But don't worry, these are so many, so many wonderful people

9 (54m 48s):
In terms of what's happening in Gaza. I know there are an estimated five to 600 Americans there. Is there any chance Israel let some of those Americans out or Egypt allow some of those Americans in?

6 (54m 60s):
You're exactly right. And to date, at least, Hamas has blocked them from leaving, showing, once again, its total disregard for civilians of any kind who are, who are stuck in Gaza.

1 (55m 13s):
Well, I mean, there's a shock. There's an absolute shock. But don't worry, guys, I mean, really, the two, the, the peace process, the two state solution must continue pace. Now, here's the thing, when you send that mixed message to the Western public, the public gets the mixed message. The public gets the mixed message. And by the way, they're constantly being told things that are untrue about the nature of, of many people who immigrate to the West. So, just to take a quick example, there's a poll from an organization called Signal. This poll polled Americans on a wide variety of issues, including the Palestinians. And one of the things that it found is that, for example, Muslim Americans in the United States, according to this poll, have a plus 16 net favorable favorable rating.

1 (55m 54s):
Four Palestinian authority President Malcolm Debas, and a net 4% favorable rating for the leader of Hamas Americans, by the way, are 47 points underwater on the leader of the, the Hamas terrorist organization. But Muslim Americans are four points over water on the leader of Hamas. Also, it turns out that Muslim Americans, unfortunately, a majority of Muslim Americans, according to this signal poll, are not anti Hamas, which is unfortunate. Apparently a majority of Muslim Americans have a positive view of Gaza. Not only that, it turns out that a majority of Muslim Americans disagree that Israel should invade to Gaza.

1 (56m 38s):
A majority, like a large majority, 58% of Muslim Americans agree that Hamas was justified in its attack on Israel 58%. So You know when it comes to, again, the lie that all human beings think the same way and have the same values. That's wrong, and it's a stupid, stupid thing to believe, but Americans are ingesting it, which is why, for example, there's a new poll from the Wall Street Journal, and what it shows is a 2022 survey, 2022 survey. 75% of Americans have a positive view of the Israeli people. 51% of Americans have a favorable view of the Palestinian people. I'm just wondering what that would be based on. Seriously, you, you can have an unfavorable view of people and also not believe that they should be mistreated or harmed in any way.

1 (57m 23s):
But what, like, it's that separation. It's this idea that, again, everybody just wants the same thing. Everybody just would love to have the same. We, we all agree on all of these things. By the way, this new poll from the Wall Street Journal shows that if you're under the age of 30, a broad majority do not support Israel in its war against Hamas. The the statistics among young people, by the way, are just devastating because again, when you indoctrinate people in a post colonialist, idiotic, wild, left wing, wretched of the earth mindset, this is what you end up with. So there, there's polling data that now shows that young Americans particularly are heavily sympathetic to actual terrorism, according to this poll from Harvard Harris, the this Harvard Harris poll shows.

1 (58m 13s):
Here's the question, do you think the Hamas killing of 1200 Israeli civilians in Israel can be justified by the grievances of Palestinians or is not justified? The older you get, the more sane you are on this question. If you are above the age of 65, 90 1% say not justified. If you are between the ages of 18 and 24, a majority, a major, 51% of people aged 18 to 24 believe that Hamas is justified in murdering 1200 civilians justified 51%. If you're between the ages of 25 and 34, barely minority, 48% believe that that is still justified. That's insane. By the way, the same, the same exact poll says, do you think the attacks on Jews were genocidal in nature or not?

1 (58m 52s):
Genocidal 18 to 24, 60 2% say genocidal, which is wild. So 62% of young Americans, 18 to 24 say that the attacks by Hamas were genocidal, but 51% still say they were justified, which is Nuts, which is Nuts. But again, this is what happens when you indoctrinate people into the belief system of multiculturalism. All cultures are equal, all cultures are equivalent. Now, again, this has wages and effects into the West. When you import hundreds of thousands of people who believe this sort of stuff, things tend to get pretty ugly. And so this is why we've seen mass protests not only in London, but mass anti-Israel protests in New York City, mass anti-Semitic protests in New York City.

1 (59m 32s):
Here's what it looked like over the weekend, is in Brooklyn, People getting Ruffo with the police officers, but You know no big deal because they're, they're of the right political persuasion. At Barry Weiss's free press, Barry, of course, is a, a, a Zionist and, and a Jew, and at her offices at the Free Press, somebody came by and, and graffitied outside the Office f Jews. So they obviously people who, who they have territorial disputes. Meanwhile, a a woman who is a Detroit Jewish community leader named Samantha Wool was murdered over the weekend.

1 (1h 0m 18s):
The police have yet to establish who exactly did it, but they're, they're, they're jumping to the conclusion that they know the motive, which is interesting. So we'll find out whether that is true or not, but certainly tensions are running incredibly high. According to the Washington Free Beacon, an Israeli Harvard Business school student was accost and harassed amid a Gaza die in on campus. Here's what that looked like.

17 (1h 0m 40s):
Exit, exit, exit. Show him the exit, exit, exit.

1 (1h 0m 50s):
Also in Skokie. So Skokie is most famously the site of a neo-Nazi march in which the left suggested that everyone has a right to free speech and all the rest of it. But the new neo-Nazis, the Neo neo-Nazis, they arrived in Skokie as well. They were supposed to hold their protest actually in, in downtown Chicago. And then they saw that the Jews were gonna hold their protest in Skokie, which is a heavily Jewish part of Chicago. My grandmother used to live there, and so I know Skokie pretty well and very, very Jewish area of Chicago. So naturally you go where the Jews are. I mean, if you wanna target Jews, this is where you go. So two people were taken into police custody on Sunday evening after one man allegedly fired a shot in the air near demonstrators. Why did that happen?

1 (1h 1m 29s):
Apparently, his car was surrounded, he had Israeli flags on it, and people started ripping the flag apart off the car and surrounded the car, and so he felt scared. So he got outta the car and fired a shot in the air. He was arrested. But the fact that they're going to Jewish areas, meaning the the anti-Semites are going to Jewish areas in order to start trouble. That of course is not a shock. Here's what it looked like. This, isn, Laura Loomer, I have problems with Laura, but this coverage is, is, is good and necessary. Now, again, they went to the Jewish area. That's the whole point here.

14 (1h 2m 3s):
Shame on you, shame on you, shame on you, shame

1 (1h 2m 8s):
On you. I love the Palestinians on you and their supporters shouting, shame on you after massacring You. know 1200 Jews Kamas, that, that's, that makes perfect sense. So tensions are high. The good news is, again, when you cultivate not only people who are terrorist supporters in the West, but also a bunch of useful idiots in the West, that's very helpful. The New York Times is populated entirely by useful idiots. This is how you have useful idiot Michelle Goldberg writing an entire column called It's Impossible to Know What to Believe in this hideous War. No, I actually know what to believe and who to believe in this, in the hideous war. Actually, I actually do know that I, I love the throwing up of the hands. I don't know. I don't, I I'm sure Michelle Goldberg You know what they know.

1 (1h 2m 50s):
They know that if, if you, if you accidentally find yourself in the Gaza Strip, they won't know what to do with you because your last name is Goldberg. It turns out, so obviously it, it's too much. She does. She just doesn't know what to believe. Or you have Nick Christophe, we must not kill Gazen children to try to protect Israel's children. No one's killing Gazen children except for Kamas, which is putting its children in, in the way of bombs. But Nicholas Christophe, again, looking for that moral equivalence, that very comfortable, lukewarm soft embrace of moral equivalents. The crisis in the Middle East is a naughty test of our humanity, asking how to respond to a grotesque provocation of which there is no good remedy. And in this test, we in the West are not doing well. The acceptance of large scale bombing of Gaza and a ground invasion likely to begin suggest Palestinian.

1 (1h 3m 33s):
Children are lesser victims devalued by their association with come out. No, it doesn't. It assumes that the only way a sovereign state can protect its territory is by taking out terrorists who murder its citizens. That's what it assumes. That's, that's literally the entire thing. But again, that soft, squishy moral relativism is everybody's favorite. And then you have people who are, who have been hinting at their antisemitism, particularly with regard to Israel for quite a while, Dave Chappelle comes to mind. You know everybody, including me, was willing to overlook his space Jews routine, in which he suggested that, of course, the Jews were the big colonizers in the Middle East, and he basically parroted all of the anti-Israel, anti-Zionist, anti-Jewish nonsense that has been promoted around the left wing for years and years in, in one of his old specials. And I kind looked the other way, and I was like, okay, whatever.

1 (1h 4m 13s):
You know, he's a comedian. Well, apparently he was sort of standing for Kamas and of course, calling Israel a human rights violator at one of his shows last week, and a bunch of people walked out. He suggested Israel is a giant human rights violator and all the rest of this, and you can always count on Hollywood to contribute. Its bit so morons in Hollywood. All, all the, all the best people, all of them, all, all of your moral exemplars. Everybody from Melissa Milano who took a break from standing for abortion to stand with terrorists, apparently she likes dead babies across the board. So you got Alyssa Milano, you have David Cross, you have people like Hassan Minhaj recently spotted, falsifying many of his personal stories about American anti-Arab sentiment, Jeremy Strong, who is, is so far up his own rear that he, he has become totally familiar with his own colon.

1 (1h 5m 1s):
Kristen Stewart Macklemore, mark Ruffalo, who, and by the way, I would trade any of these people for any of the hostages in Gaza right now, and we'll see how they enjoy it over there. Ryan Coogler, the director of Black Panther, Susan Sarandon, no shock there. Rooney Mara, John Stewart, who's a, just a despicable human being. Wanda Sykes, Rosario Dawson, Kate Blanchett, Andrew Garfield, Mahar Shawa, Ali America Ferrera, recently the star of of Barbie, Joaquin Phoenix. All these people signed a letter. And what does the letter say? The letter says that Israel must stop. It must stop. You must leave the terrorist in place. They wrote a letter to the president. Dear President, we come together as artisan advocates, but most importantly, as human beings, witnessing the devastating loss of lives and unfolding horrors in Israel and Palestine, we ask that as President of the United States, you call for an immediate deescalation in ceasefire, in Gaza, in Israel, before another life is lost.

1 (1h 5m 53s):
There is zero mention in this entire letter of Hamas. There is zero mention of what led off this conflict. This is the way, by the way, that moral morons do What they do, what they do is they just ignore the beginning of every war. It's really, it, it's a, it's a fun way to, again, escape moral culpability. And the fact that you in fact, are a fellow traveler with Hamas to do all of this stuff makes it really easy. You just ignore what started the whole thing. They've been doing this for 20 years. Hamas fires a bunch of rockets in Israeli civilian centers, Israel retaliates. They go, the violence must stop. It's like, well, what, what led to the violence? If you can ignore it, then you can just move right back into that warm bath of moral equivalence. But here's the reality. The moral equivalence doesn't exist, and guess what? Reality is gonna hit you directly in the face if you continue with this nonsense.

1 (1h 6m 35s):
So the West has a choice. They can either wake up or they can continue to to facilitate moral idiocy in the name of tolerance. It's not just gonna be juicy. Pay the price for that one. By the way, already, guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be joined by mcCal Cutler once she's former member of the, and Israel's newly appointed special envoy for combating antisemitism. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

Eagle Financial Publications (1h 7m 6s):
Hi, I'm Brian Perry with Eagle Financial Publications offering investing insights for the modern investor. I've spotted a rare opening in an unstoppable megatrend with global implications, and I want you to hear about this opportunity while there's still time to take action. I'm talking about lithium, the miracle metal that is set to unleash our electric future. Right now, lithium prices are off their peak, but with oil prices on the rise conflict in the Middle, East, and EV mandates spreading around the globe, I expect demand for lithium to skyrocket in coming years. Investors in lithium companies have already seen significant returns over the last 10 years. Lithium America handed investors 2705% growth. Sigma Lithium has returned 2706% since it began. Trading in 2018 in Alchem Limited is up 733% over the last 10 years. In my research, I've discovered a new star in the lithium gain with assets potentially worth billions. Right now, it's trading around a $25 million market cap, but I anticipate dramatic growth in its future. To learn more, I encourage you to download my free report@lithiumalert.com. Once again, that's lithium alert.com.