0 (0s):
Well, it's the end of the road for Nikki Haley, the Former UN Ambassador under Donald Trump Former governor of South Carolina. She is dropping out of the race today because Donald Trump dominated Super Tuesday. This of course, was not a shock. The only question was why she was staying in, because the reality was that in every state except for Vermont, Trump not only won, he won convincingly in her home state of South Carolina, he beat her by about 20 points. He beat her 60 to 40 in North Carolina, he beat her 73 to 23 In Virginia, he beat her 63 to 34. These are all particularly Virginia Virginia's a moderate Republican state that is not a left wing Republican state and and or right wing Republican state. And he beat her very soundly in that state.

0 (41s):
In California, he beat her 78 to 18. What this suggests is that she really had no shot at the nomination after Iowa. No one had a shot at the nomination after Iowa, as I pointed out, which is why Rhonda DeSantis dropped out early. It's also why Nikki Haley then stayed in in the hope that she'd win New Hampshire. She didn't win New Hampshire. She overperformed a little bit and then she stayed in past that mainly to, I think put up a flag to the rest of the Republican party that should Trump lose in November. She will be the leader of the opposition ready to come in and take over. I think that's a misread of how Republicans think of Donald Trump. I think that even if Donald Trump loses in November in the general election to Joe Biden, it's very unlikely that the Republican party is then going to swivel and turn to Nikki Haley, especially because Nikki Haley seems to be making the same mistake that Ted Cruz made in 2016 after losing the primaries to Donald Trump.

0 (1m 28s):
You'll recall that Ted Cruz then went to the Republican National Convention and he said, vote your conscience instead of just endorsing Trump. He sort of left it up in the air pleasing no one. He suggested to the Trump voters that maybe he wasn't supportive of Trump and to the not Trump voters, that maybe he was supportive of Trump and he ended up winning no backing. Because of that Nikki Haley seems to be playing the same game, which doesn't seem particularly politically smart to me. It's one thing for Nikki Haley to say, I'm staying innocent, alternative to Trump because I think that he's going to lose. But Now that he's the nominee, he's the nominee for her to sit outside and not endorse. Trump seems to me a a bit of political malpractice. According to the Wall Street Journal, Haley plans to suspend her Republican presidential primary bid in a speech on Wednesday, the Former South Carolina governor and UN UN Ambassador is expected to make an appearance to deliver brief Amar remarks around 10:00 AM Eastern.

0 (2m 13s):
Her decision arrived the day after Super Tuesday. She won only Vermont among the 15 states, and Vermont is basically Canada. She's not going to announce an endorsement on Wednesday. However, she's going to encourage Donald Trump to earn the support of Republicans and independent voters who have backed her, which presumably could theoretically be a vi, a vice presidential play. Maybe she's hoping that he picks her as sort of a unity ticket, but given his dominant performance in the primaries, very unlikely at this point that he feels the necessity to do that. So a lot of eyes are gonna turn toward who he actually does pick for his vp. There are a lot of people who have been mentioned ranging from JD Vance, the Senator from Ohio to Tim Scott, the Senator from South Carolina. We will have to wait and see Donald Trump for his part delivered a Super Tuesday victory speech in which he triumph fully proclaimed that he was nominated, which of course has been true basically since Iowa, Iowa.

0 (2m 59s):
Once you won Iowa, the thing was over.

1 (3m 2s):
We've watched our country take a great beating over the last three years, and nobody thought a thing like this would be possible. We wouldn't have Russia attacking Ukraine. We wouldn't have Israel being attacked. Iran, as you know, was broke when I was running things. They were broke. They didn't have money for Hamas. They didn't have money for Hezbollah. We had no inflation. Inflation is destroying the middle class. It's destroying everything. Inflation If. you look back over the history hundreds of years back, it's called inflation is called a country buster, and that's what it's doing to our country. What's happened with inflation has been unbelievable.

1 (3m 44s):
A lot of people say, a lot of experts have said the stock market's the only thing that's doing well and that's doing well because our poll numbers are so much higher than Joe Biden's.

0 (3m 56s):
Okay? So all of that is true except for the last part. Nobody is really suggesting that the stock market is doing well because of the expectation that Donald Trump is going to win in November. The stock market is doing well because when you inflate the currency, people don't have any other place to put their investment money If. you put your investment money in cash, it loses value. So people have started in investing in speculative stock bubbles, which is why the price to earnings ratios right now on Wall Street are completely out of whack and probably we're experiencing a bubble on the Dow Jones Industrial average in the New York Stock Exchange. For example, Donald Trump then went on to rip Joe Biden on migrant crime again. He's doing the right thing in this victory speech, which has put all the focus on Joe Biden. If this entire campaign is about Joe Biden, Joe Biden is not going to win. Trump I think knows that.

0 (4m 38s):
The only question is whether Trump steps on himself. He didn't do it last night. Really,

1 (4m 42s):
We have the worst numbers, probably, probably in the history of the world. It's sad to see what's happening to our cities. Our cities are being overrun with migrant crime, and that's Biden migrant crime, but it's a new category of crime and it's violent where they'll stand in the middle of the street and have fistfights with police officers. And if they did that in their countries from where they came, they'd be killed instantly. Instantly. They wouldn't do that. So the world is laughing at us. The world is taking advantage of us. Three years ago, we were at a level, we were energy independent. We're gonna be very shortly energy dominant, and today we're getting oil from Venezuela.

1 (5m 27s):
Can you believe it?

0 (5m 29s):
Okay. Again, he is not wrong about any of this sort of stuff. Now, the exit polls for Republicans showed that their top issue was immigration, which is not a surprise because it is in fact the top issue in the country right now, even according to much of the polling data for the general American population. The reality is that immigration is a top issue because people are looking at the insane amount of illegal immigration under Joe Biden. You're talking about at least 7 million people have entered the country illegally while Joe Biden has been president. May, may all the way be all the way up to 10 million. We literally have no idea, and people see that as a crisis because it is in fact a crisis. So the exit polls showed that was the top issue for Republicans. Now, very often when you take exit polls, people will say the economy, but that's always vague.

0 (6m 11s):
Nobody actually knows what that means. Obviously, in a Republican primary, people are going to pick the issue that is the most polarized issue because they're voting Republican. So it's not a shock. They're picking immigration. But the reality is that according to a Pew research censor survey taken just last month, it shows that immigration is a top issue for a huge majority of Americans dealing with immigration. 57% of Americans say that that should be the top priority this year is dealing with illegal immigration. And when it comes to immigration, Joe Biden is 20 points underwater. This, of course, is leading Democrats down a real rabbit hole here. They have two choices. They can either moderate on immigration or they can pretend that voters are outta their minds.

0 (6m 50s):
Obviously, they're gonna do what you think they're gonna do. They're obviously going to pretend that voters are crazy and out of their minds. Folks, what does everyone do when shopping online? Well, you jump to the reviews and you see what customers actually think. Well, BOL and Branch did the hard work for you. In a recent customer survey, 96% said BOL and Branch sheets get softer with every single wash. Boll and Branch sheets are made from the finest 100% organic cotton threads on planet Earth, buttery to the touch, super breathable. Boll and Branch sheets are perfect for both cooler and warmer months that a luxurious signature hemp sheets were made without pesticides, formaldehyde, or other harsh chemicals, they really do get softer with every single wash. Best of all, Boll and Branch gives you a 30 night risk free trial with free shipping returns on all orders. You're not gonna wanna return them. We love our Boll and Branch product.

0 (7m 31s):
In fact, when I'm on the road, I actually travel with their cable knit throw blanket. It is that good. Their product is just awesome. After a long day, nothing feels better than a restful night's sleep in the softest. Most luxurious sheets sleep better at night with the softest sheets from Boll and Branch. Get 15% off your very first order when you use Code Ben at Boll and Branch dot com. That's Boll and Branch spelled B-O-L-L-A-N-D Branch dot com promo code Ben exclusions apply C site for details, Boll and Branch dot com. So last night on M-S-N-B-C, after the exit polling came out showing Republicans care about immigration. Democrats like Jen Zaki, who's the Former Press secretary for Joe Biden, where mocking Republicans for caring about immigration.

2 (8m 9s):
I mean, If, you look at some of these exit polls. I mean, I live in Virginia. Immigration was the number one issue. I mean, again, these could change in in Virginia. Well,

3 (8m 17s):
Virginia does have a border with West Virginia very contest

2 (8m 22s):
Like what

0 (8m 24s):
Ha. Or maybe people are worried that illegal immigrants are going to show up where they live and might commit crimes. Or maybe they're worried about the vast cultural changes that could be wrought by importing millions of people who have no familiarity with American concepts of things like free speech and property rights. Or maybe they're simply worried about the fact that you are generating an entire economic underclass of people, many of whom will be dependent on welfare benefits and many of whom are going to be lowering the wage base in the like. There are a lot of reasons why people in Virginia might be worried about illegal immigration, and again, Democrats are disconnected from this issue. This is the issue among the issues that Pew surveys in which there is the biggest gap between how Democrats think and how independents think.

0 (9m 6s):
Forget about Republicans, independents. So according to the polling data from Pew, 39% of Democrats believe that immigration is a real concern compared to 57% of independents and 76% of Republicans. That is a high number of independents who are deeply worried about immigration, and that number is up from 53% in 2023 and 49% in 2022. Democrats meanwhile are still stuck down in the mid thirties on this thing. When it comes to policy goals, again, independents look more like Republicans on a lot of these issues than they look like Democrats on a lot of these issues. And that's a problem for the Democrats, the White House, because they are stuck as I've been saying in this legacy media echo chamber in which the idea for them is double down on the base.

0 (9m 53s):
They're ignoring all of this. So the White House yesterday for example, they were asked about Lake and Riley's murder Lake and Riley of course, with the young woman who was killed at University of Georgia, Biden legal immigrant. And the White House tried to blame Donald Trump for that. That dog is not going to hunt. The president of the United States is Joe Biden. He needs to close the border and everybody knows it.

4 (10m 11s):
Will President Biden publicly address Laken Riley's murder allegedly at the hands of an illegal immigrant who was released by law enforcement multiple times on Thursday night?

5 (10m 22s):
We want to always, always be sure that we left lift up the families who have lost their loved ones in that way. I would be remiss if I did not continue to say that Republicans rejected a bipartisan proposal that came out of the Senate. And so if they truly, truly cared about what was going on at the border, if they truly cared about this immigration policies and trying to fix that, trying to move forward in a step in a way where we have a tough and fair law, they would work with us on it. They wouldn't listen to the Former president who is clearly telling them to reject, telling Republicans to reject it for their for his own political game.

0 (11m 0s):
Again, if they think this is a winning political argument, they're out of their minds. And this again goes to the reality of today's modern politics, and that is everybody in the media is convinced that the right wing has gone crazy and they've gone too far, right, and they're picking crazy candidates. And there is some truth to that If. you look at the last round of senatorial races, Republicans picked a bunch of terrible candidates in a bunch of winnable races and then they lost those races. But Democrats are now doing the same thing. We now have a game of chicken in which both sides have decided to put the radical brick on the on the accelerator and then just aim the cars at each other. And the question is, who is going to pull away first before the cars crash? Whoever pulls away first in this case actually wins. It is not as though If, you just continue along that path and the other guy pulls away.

0 (11m 43s):
You win. It's the opposite. In fact, basically this game of chicken is both cars are aimed at the cliff. Which side is going to stop before the cliff at all? Forget about close to the edge. Who's gonna stop at all? The reason I point this out is because yesterday Kirsten Sinema, the Senator from Arizona who started off as a Democrat and then governed as a moderate Democrat in what is a moderate purple state. Pur Arizona is a purple state. It was largely a red state. It had a state assembly and a state legislature, that state senate that were both Republican with Doug Ducey Arizona governor as a Republican until just very recently. And then the Arizona Republican Party decided they were going to shoot themselves directly in the chest by embracing every form of election questioning they possibly could, alienating every moderate in the entire state, and electing two Democratic senators and a Democratic governor, Katie Hobbes, who's a wet dish rag over in Arizona.

0 (12m 33s):
Now, the problem is that the underlying political character of the state of Arizona remains purple. There's a reason why until very recently, both senators were purple to red senators. It was, it was John McCain until he passed away and Jeff Flake until Donald Trump basically destroyed him. And those were both replaced by Democrats. And so the Democrats who replaced them have had to govern from quasi the middle. So Mark Kelly, who's one of the senators, he's attempted to govern as sort of a bluish purple democrat. Kirsten Sinema was so purple that she eventually just went purple and decided to declare herself an independent. But then she decided not to run for reelection because the Democratic party had basically cast her out and they decided to primary her.

0 (13m 16s):
So instead of just having Kirsten Sinema be an independent like Bernie Sanders who caucuses with the Democrats, which is what Kirsten Sinema would do, they didn't trust her enough. So they decided to run against her. Ruben Gallego, who's a far leftist in Arizona. And so the polls were showing a pretty even three-way split with Kirsten Sinema in the race. You had the entire Democratic party behind Gallego, and there was an Emerson College polling hill survey that was taken just a couple of weeks ago and had found that Reuben Gallego had 36% support, 30% for Kerry Lake, the Republican nominee for the Senate, and 21% for Kirsten Sinema, 13% undecided.

0 (13m 56s):
And so Kirsten Sinema looked at that. So Democrats could have easily dominated this race if they had just said, okay, fine, we're not gonna run against Ky Sinema. We understand she's an independent, but she's gonna caucus with us. It's gonna stay out. She easily wins reelection in Arizona. She's a pretty popular Senator, but they decided not to do that. And so now they're basically getting rid of her in favor of Ruben Gallego, which makes their race actually significantly harder. 'cause Gallego is not in the mainstream of Arizona politics. We get to more on this in just one second. First, Pure Talk believes in American values and that when people say free, they should mean, you know actually free. When you switch to Pure Talk today, you will Get a FREE Samsung five G smartphone, no four line requirement, no activation fee, just a free Samsung that's built to last rugged screen, quick charging battery, top tier data security qualifying plans start at just 35 bucks a month for unlimited talk text, 15 gigs of data and a mobile hotspot.

0 (14m 42s):
Pure Talk gives you phenomenal coverage on America's most dependable 5G network. It's the same coverage you know and love, but for half the price of the other guys, the average family will save almost a thousand dollars a year. So I challenge you to choose a company that actually shares your values. Let Pure talk's expert US customer service team help you make the switch today. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro to claim your eligibility for your free brand new Samsung five G smartphone start saving on wireless today. Again, go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro, switch to my cell phone company. I've been using Pure Talk for years at this point. I can tell you that coverage is excellent. I trust them. You can too. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro and switch to my cell phone company today. Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. According to the Wall Street Journal, Sinema said she will not run for reelection and will retire after this term ending.

0 (15m 24s):
For now, the political run of what of Congress's most productive in controversial lawmakers, A centrist who forged bipartisan deals while also regularly angering progressive Democrats. This is a different thing, by the way, than Republicans basically saying to MIT Romney, it's time for you to go. The reason that's different is 'cause Utah is a deep red state. Utah is a blood red state. Arizona is a purple state. And for Democrats to get rid of a purple Senator who's going to caucus with them in favor of a far left candidate like Gallego, is really a fascinating turn of events. Now, if only Republicans had nominated someone who, for example, had not run for governor and lost and then claimed that she won for the last year and a half like that, that might, that might be nice. But they didn't do that. They ran Kerry Lake instead. So it's Kerry Lake versus Ruben Gallego. Clash of the Titans over in Arizona demonstrating once more, whoever seizes the middle ground is going to win these elections.

0 (16m 10s):
But both parties in some cases seems to be running away from the middle ground. Ironically, in the presidential race, it's Joe Biden who's running away from the middle ground and Donald Trump who's reaching over and grabbing it weirdly enough. But in many of the state races, Trumpism has been red as a super right-wing, Maga Maga, very far extremist right movement. And so a lot of the people being nominated are people who are also abandoning the middle, which is not smart. See, the dirty secret I've been saying about Donald Trump is that he's politically moderate and rhetorically extreme. And so many of the people who have been running are politically extreme and rhetorically extreme, which is not what Americans are super into. And by the way, even rhetorically extreme only works for Donald Trump. It really does not work for anyone else. Donald Trump is a one of one in the same way that Barack Obama for Democrats was a one of one.

0 (16m 54s):
You cannot be Trump. There is no one who can outtrump Trump. There's nobody who can even be in that same category. Trump is a standup comedian who became president of the United States because he's extraordinarily entertaining. He is camera magnetic. He is always funny. Like all those things are things that no other politician can hold a candle to because he's in a completely different category. He's an entertainer who became a politician, not a politician trying to be an entertainer. In any case, Kirsten Sinema being ousted from the Democratic party and then retiring means that Democrats are also ousting the people who are supposedly reaching to the middle. Now, to be fair to the Democrats with her out of the race, a head-to-head matchup between Gallego and Lake shows that Gallegos lead actually expands to seven points, 46, 39 with 15% undecided.

0 (17m 40s):
So Lake is gonna have to reach out to the middle if she wants to win that race. But for his part, Bernie Sanders is triumphalist about this. Bernie Sanders on the far left of the party, he's like, yeah, we are dragging the entire party far to the left.

6 (17m 51s):
Shortly before our rehearsal today, Arizona Senator, Kirsten Sinema announced that she will not be seeking reelection this fall. Obviously, a lot of people are gonna miss her. Are you? How much are you going to miss her? Not at all.

0 (18m 6s):
Crazy person I say, it says, it says the crazed old goofball socialist. But that's the Democratic party. They've decided they're gonna cater to the Bernie Wing of the party rather than the Kirsten Sinema wing of the party. Joe Biden ran his Kirsten Sinema and governed as Bernie Sanders, which is actually a really bad strategy, which means that he has kind of one final opportunity to put a new face on his presidency. That of course, is going to happen this week with his State of the Union address. As political points out, the State of the Union may be one of the most vastly overrated speeches in all of politics, but not this year. The address that Joe Biden has set to deliver on Thursday night will come as the President faces intensifying worries about his age and vitality, and a host of confounding international crises in domestic challenges. That backdrop has dramatically heightened the stakes for the White House with millions of viewers tuning in, not just to hear the words yers, but how he physically delivers them.

0 (18m 51s):
And this, of course, is the key. The key is not to the State of the Union whether Joe Biden says anything memorable. When's the last time a president said anything memorable during a State of the Union address? They're all terrible State of the Union addresses. I hate them. I hate them every single year. I don't care who the president is or of what party. They're a monarchic spectacle in which the other branches of the American government are expected to treat the President as though he's an emperor. The State of the Union was supposed to be a letter issued from the President due the legislature, giving them an update on things that were going on. 'cause government was originally really small. And then it turned into this pathetic imperial spectacle in which the President walks in and everybody cheers for him and kiss the rain. It's just ridiculous. It's a ridiculous, stupid thing. I hate it every single year. It's stupid guy. It's particularly stupid when you have a president like Joe Biden who has to be wheeled in on a gurney in order to make this statement.

0 (19m 37s):
But it will be entertaining this year, as I've been saying for a long time, since Joe Biden took the presidency. Watching Joe Biden speak is in fact quite exciting. Not in the way he thinks it is, but it's very exciting. It's exciting because it's like watching the Willand Brothers, right? You're watching somebody cross a tightrope in windy weather above a volcano. And so when Joe Biden speaks, the big question is not going to be how? How well does he do? It's how badly he will do. There's no world in which he walks out and he is super charismatic and just absolutely fascinating as a rhetorically shocking shock. Somebody who you look at and you're like, wow, that is an inspirational figure. The question for Joe Biden is whether he's going to physically collapse on stage.

0 (20m 19s):
Obviously we'll be covering this over at DailyWire backstage. We're gonna be covering it live tomorrow night to make sure that you tune in over at DailyWire dot com for that. But the big question is going to be whether Joe Biden physically survives the speech, which means the expectations are quite low. It also means, unfortunately for him that again, the more visibility people get of Joe Biden, the less they like him. We'll get to more on this in just one second. First, let's face it, your bank sucks. I dunno what bank you use, but it sucks. That's why you need current current's. Build Card is secured credit card that lets you use your own money to build your credit. It basically functions like a debit card, but rather than borrowing money you don't have and getting dinged with 25% interest fees, every time you do, you use your own money and improve your credit score as you do.

0 (21m 0s):
I mean, there have been times in my life where you've been running up against the credit card limit, it's really uncomfortable. Or where you're worried about blowing out your credit. You might not think building credit is very important right now, but it really, really is. When you go to buy a car or a house, the first thing they ask for is your credit score. You need to start building your credit. The best way to do that is with current. Current is a more affordable, accessible, innovative banking system. They help you better spend, save, and manage your money. There are no credit checks or credit history is required. There are no annual or subscription fees. If, you set up direct deposit. With current, you can get paid up to two days faster and you can qualify for fee free overdraft of up to 200 bucks. The world is changing, so as time banking did too, what are you waiting for? Get current, the future of banking. Go to current.com slash Shapiro or download the app. That's current.com, spelled C-U-R-R-E-N t.com slash Shapiro terms apply.

0 (21m 45s):
Current is a financial technology company, not a bank. Banking services provided by Choice Financial Group member FT C and Cross River Bank member FDIC. For full terms and conditions, visit current.com or call 8 8 8 8 5 1 11 72 for more information. So Joe Biden yesterday was asked how he thinks he's doing in the race and he said, I'm

7 (22m 2s):
Winning

8 (22m 6s):
President.

9 (22m 7s):
What's your message to Democrats who are concerned about your poll numbers? My poll number, the last five polls, you guys don't report. I'm winning five five in a row. You guys only look at the New York Times. They're great paper.

0 (22m 26s):
I mean, this must have been a scary moment for him because lurking in the background is his worst nightmare stares. But I'll also point out at this point that that is not true of the last five polls that have been taken. He's losing in three of them. The only ones where he's winning, he's inside the margin of error. Those would be Morning Consult and TIPP in virtually every poll before that he is losing. So that's not true. Also, again, one of the reasons he is losing is because he is no longer with us. So yesterday he was doing a press conference and he does this weird thing where he says the stage directions out loud where you know if you've ever been to a play, there're stage directions. And the stage directions is like exit stage left. Okay, well, Joe Biden reads that like he'll sort of just read the stage directions.

0 (23m 7s):
I'll be

7 (23m 7s):
All, now it's time to take some que I better not take questions. I know. Okay, exit stage left. Joe Biden out.

0 (23m 14s):
Here we go.

8 (23m 16s):
I love the questions. I better not start the questions. I'll get in trouble. What's your message for Tuesday? Voters

0 (23m 25s):
With whom you're the president? Tuesday

8 (23m 27s):
If, you have a message for voters. Thanks. Come on. Thank you so much. Thank you all.

0 (23m 32s):
He breathes like every breath could be a death rattle. My goodness. you know, like picks up the microphone. Just, I better

7 (23m 39s):
Not take questions or people are gonna,

0 (23m 47s):
He needs like the Darth Vader suit. Like this is, this is, this is bad guys. It, it's, it's just not good. Okay. And then he said yesterday that his staff would drop him a note when it was dropped. Dead time. Unfortunate language for the barely sentient president.

8 (24m 3s):
With that, I'm gonna turn this over to Lale, the Director of National Economic Council. But I'm supposed to leave for a meeting with meeting with the Business Roundtable on the telephone. But I'm gonna hang around and listen a little bit. So with your permission, I'd like to stay If, you and I, my, my staff will tell, tell me when the drop dead hour occurs, they'll pass me a note.

0 (24m 24s):
What was that? What in the world is that? I, I have a phone call on the, on the rotary in a moment and time. I'm gonna stick around just a little bit. Yeah, if that's okay with your pudding and that that, okay. The thing he actually campaigned on yesterday, all, all, that's just him being ridiculously senile. But the thing he actually campaigned on, I'm not kidding you, is shrink inflation. So he believes that he is going to be able to p pawn off his poor economic record on inflation, on the GRE of corporations that are putting less in the potato chip bag and charging the same amount of money, which is his fault. Inflation is your fault.

0 (25m 4s):
You are the president. Inflation began when you entered office, my friend, but here he was yesterday. But he wasn't just talking about shrink inflation, which again, that, that's gonna be a hell of a campaign slogan. I'm Joe Biden and I'm here to fight shrink inflation. I, I swear he sounds like Costanza talking about shrinkage here, except he's citing the Cookie Monster. Now the open question in this particular clip is whether Joe Biden believes the Cookie Monster to be a real thing. Like whether the Cookie Monster is a sentient being who walks around on the earth and eats cookies. Here, here is Joe Biden quoting the Cookie Monster. This is where we are folks.

8 (25m 40s):
In fact, some of the small snack companies, you won't and think, you won't even notice what they're doing when they charge you just as much for the same size bag of potato chips only has a hell of a lot fewer chips in it. I'll tell you what I tell you. Who did notice the Cookie? Monster? He pointed out cookies are, his cookies are getting smaller, paying the same price. I was stunned when I found out that's what actually happened.

0 (26m 7s):
I was stunned. I talked to Cookie the other day and he said, Mr. President Cheese for Cookie. And I said, oh, I do like Cookie. And I said, Mr. Cookie Monster, can we be best friends? And then Little Red Monster showed up and also wanted to be friends. And then they put me under and ah, anyway, he's, everything's going. Well. Get ready for 72 minutes of that tomorrow night. Woo. That's gonna be some strong stuff. But it's, again, it's not just that he's in out, it's that he's bad at this, he's bad, he's bad at the president thing. The most obvious, the most obvious place where he's bad at the President thing right now is in the entire conflagration between Israel and Hamas.

0 (26m 47s):
It's more on this in just moment. First, folks, as you know, I know what it's like to start and run a business. Lemme tell you, you have to save time. This is why I'm so excited to introduce you to ramp. If you're a finance professional, looking for a better way to maximize productivity and cut wasteful spending Ramp could be for you. RAMP is a corporate card and spend management software designed to help you save time and put money back in your pocket. With Ramp, you can issue cards to every employee with limits and restrictions. You can also stop wasting time at the end of every month by automating your expense reporting Ramp's. Accounting software automatically collects receipts and categorizes your expenses in real time so you don't have to, you'll never have to chase down a receipt again. Your employees will no longer spend hours submitting expense reports. The time you will save each month on employee expenses will allow you to close your books eight times faster.

0 (27m 30s):
Ramp is super easy to use. Get started in less than 15 minutes. Whether you have five employees or 5,000, get 250 bucks when you join ramp. Just go to ramp.com slash Shapiro. It's spelled RAM p.com slash Shapiro. Again, that's ramp.com slash Shapiro. Cards issued by Sutton Bank and Celtic Bank members, FDIC, terms and conditions apply. So the United States has continued to provide material support to Israel, but rhetorically they've been undercutting Israel at every possible turn in their battle against a genocidal Terror group. And they've been declaring that Israel should negotiate with this genocidal Terror group who currently holds six American citizens hostage. By the way, among the 134 hostages, we don't know how many are alive. And Kamas says they don't know how many are alive, which is amazing. I gotta say Hamas, they're incredible accounting bodies, but they have no idea how many hostages are alive.

0 (28m 15s):
A bomb hits in five seconds later, it's 27,221 people have been killed. All of them children and all of them poets. And then they're like, sure, you know, it's been like three and a half months since we took 134. We have no idea how many of those people are alive. Weird how you're counting skills wildly degrade the minute that we are talking about the people who you are keeping in captivity and raping routinely, presumably. So the Biden administration has taken the rhetorical side of Hamas by proclaiming a moral equivalence. See, here's the thing. When you proclaim a moral equivalence between a murderer and the person, that person is trying to murder between the murderer and the victim, you are siding with the murderer If. you say, Hey, hold up here.

0 (28m 55s):
We have oj and here we have Nicole. And sure, sure Nicole is on the floor bleeding. And sure Nicole has a right to self-defense if she's still alive. But let's be real, there have been mistakes made on all sides. You're taking the side of OJ at that point. And that is what the Biden administration has been doing. Rhetorically, which again, is the worst thing they can do because If, you grant an iota of rhetorical sympathy to terrorists. They are going to push you. They're going to realize that they now have leverage over you. And that's what Hamas realizes. The number of lies this administration has either fallen for or told themselves on behalf of Hamas is insane at this point. So for example, we've been hearing that Israel will not ship an aid. That's not true.

0 (29m 35s):
Israel allows in hundreds of aid trucks every single day, but there's no one to distribute the aid. You wanna know why there's no one to distribute the aid in aid in the Gaza Strip? Perhaps because Hamas hijacks the trucks. Here is tape of Hamas riding around on the aid trucks. This is from yesterday. You see that these are aid trucks. There are two members of Hamas on top of each one of these aid trucks. These are all civilians who are standing there being like, where's my damned food? And the answer is, Hamas is stealing all of it. And then the Biden administration's like, what if we send them more? It says, the Israelis are being so mean about Hamas is stealing the aid, and they're killing people who are trying to get the aid. It's totally insane. But then Israel gets blamed.

0 (30m 15s):
Rhetorically Israel needs to do more, says the Biden administration. Meanwhile, Joe Biden yesterday says, we need a ceasefire because of Ramadan. Okay, I'm sorry, this bullshit has to stop. What, what? It's, it's so ridiculous. This is such ridiculous nonsense. Ramadan is very holy holiday to the terrorists who are willing to literally violate every single other human being's religious scruples on Ramadan. Everybody has to go real easy 'cause people are fasting between sunrise and sunset. Gotta go real easy because it turns out terrorists, they love them. They're Ramadan in a kamas land over here. Gotta be so easy on them because obviously these are people we have to respect their religious gruels that dictate that they should murder. Pretty much everybody who is not a religious Muslim makes perfect sense because obviously they have demonstrated enormous, enormous credibility when it comes to respect for other religions.

0 (31m 3s):
Like for example, when the Palestinian Arabs were in charge of the holy sites, Jews can't get in. In fact, if Jews tried to worship at their own holy sites when the estate of Israel did not exist, for example, the Western Wall giant riots would start like in 1929 and hundreds of Jews would be murdered. So obviously they listen. If there is one thing that the radical Muslim world is known for it's respect for other religions, which is why they literally blow up churches and build mosques on top of them, or go directly on top of the Temple Mount and put the dome of the rock directly on top of the Jewish Holy of Holies from the temple. It's also why they go to Hindu sites in India, blow up the Hindu sites and put a mosque on top. Because if they're, again, when we are talking about colonialist religions folks, there is one that wins.

0 (31m 44s):
Okay? The most colonialist religion of all time is Islam. Okay? But that does not, there can be moderate Muslims, they're just not in kamas land. There are many moderate Muslim, I know some moderate Muslims, you know, people who don't actually believe in the colonial legacy of Sharia law. But to pretend that Ramadan is, is the, is the deciding factor in whether Israel should be able to go and try to take back it. Hostages and kill terrorists is totally insane. Again, demonstrating, once again, radical Muslim sympathy for other religions. The last two major surprise wars that launched in Israel were launched on respectively, the Yom Yom Kippur, the holiest day in the Jewish calendar in 1973. And Rah, which was October 7th Rah, is the happiest day in the Jewish calendar, and also happened to be a Shabbat.

0 (32m 28s):
It's like a double holiday for Jews, perfect time for Hamas to respect the religion and Palestinian civilians involved to respect the religion of the Jews by killing 1200 of them. And, but, but Joe Biden's, like Ramadan's coming. We gotta be careful about Ra honestly, this, this, it's so stupid. It's so stupid. You're not winning hearts and minds by trying to get a ceasefire on behalf of terrorist groups for Ramadan. Who's, who's whispering in Joe's ear? Who believes this? Or does Joe just believe this in his adult brain

9 (32m 57s):
Deal by Ramadan? Well, I, there's gotta be a ceasefire because Ramadan, if we get into a circumstance where this continues through Ramadan, Israel and Jerusalem, again, it could be very, very dangerous. So we're looking, we're trying hard for that ceasefire.

0 (33m 15s):
Oh, you mean, oh, you mean that there will be, you know, act acts of rioting on the Temple Mount, like there's every single year, and then you'll blame the Jews for the acts of rioting by the Muslims on the Temple Mount. I've been up there, by the way. And the Muslim world then suggests that I am quote unquote trespassing or invading at the Temple Mount, by which they mean I walk around it. That's what they mean. You're literally barred from praying on the temple mount by the Islamic wok. So long as you are a Jew or a Christian, by the way, if you're a Muslim, you can be up there playing soccer and eating McDonald's, which is literally what happens on the Temple Mound. There's literally a school in the corner of the Temple Mound. There's very holy site to Muslims where kids are playing soccer and flying kites. So yeah, in, in any case, this is stupid, but what, what exactly does it mean? So the Biden administration, they're pursuing a ceasefire, and Hamas is rejecting every ceasefire.

0 (33m 59s):
Hamas literally rejected the last ceasefire offer. That ceasefire offer was a, an offer for a six week ceasefire in return for leasing the remaining female hostages and Hamas rejected it outright. According to the New York Times, president Biden said, Tuesday talks on a possible six week ceasefire in Gaza are in the hands of Hamas right now. He spoke just before Hamas leader in Lebanon appeared to reject a proposed deal. The US is backing, insisting Israeli hostages would be released only after a ceasefire was in place. And Israeli forces have withdrawn. So Hamas knows they're in control because Biden wants the ceasefire more than he wants Israel to destroy Kamas. That is just the bottom line here. And so because of that, Biden is now shifting his line to mirror Kamas.

0 (34m 43s):
According to I 24 news. While holding out for Kamas to accept a ceasefire and hostage released proposal, usands Arab negotiators floated a potential short pause to hostilities while the larger deal gets ironed out. So what would that mean? That would mean calling for a ceasefire without any hostages being released, which is called losing. You think the Israelis are gonna go for that? It's the most insane stupidity ever. It's ridiculously insane. And the media and the political class, they're like, oh, well this is because Joe Biden doesn't get along with Bibe. This has nothing to do with Joe Biden and Bibe. Benny Gonz just visited Washington dc He got the same exact treatment from Kamala Harris and Joe Biden. One of the great lies of foreign policy is that foreign policy is constructed based on individual likes and dislikes of the leaders of countries.

0 (35m 28s):
It is not, it's based on the individual interests of countries. It doesn't matter very much whether you like or dislike Vladimir Putin or whether you get along with him or not. What matters is whether his interests are actually in coincidence with your own. And the same thing holds truth Israeli leaders or with Palestinian leaders. We ought to be absolutely clear and gimlet eyed about the question of American national interest and the national interests of other countries. And this bizarre notion that America has some sort of disagreement with Bibi Netanyahu personally, and therefore they have to make some sort of concessions to Kamas. It's absolute stupidity. Meanwhile, by the way, Iran is activating all of its proxies.

0 (36m 8s):
They know they've got a we, they have a, they have a fish on the line, and that fish is the Biden administration. So Hezbollah has been heating up because they know that Joe Biden wants one thing above all, and that is a ceasefire in the region. And so they are ratcheting up their military action in the attempt to gain concessions via the United States from the Israelis. So yesterday, for example, Hezbollah launched 50 rockets into the north of Israel. Now any self-respecting country receiving 50 rockets across its border would then go and wmp the people on the other side of the border. Can you imagine if the Mexican government, not the drug cartels the government, because Hezbollah basically runs the government in Lebanon decided that they were going to launch 50 rockets into San Diego, Mexico City would not exist the next morning.

0 (36m 48s):
At the very least, you'd have Marines sipping tea from the Capitol. But here is what the video looks like on the northern border of Israel, where again, 30,000 Israelis have abandoned their homes in the north because of Hezbollah threats. And there's widespread expectation in Israel that within the next two to three months, there will be a large scale war in the North with Hezbollah, which is living 200,000 rockets in Israel. Here's what it looks like when a terrorist group fires rockets into another sovereign country. This is coz Bah, just launching rockets over the border of Israel And it's only thanks to the Iron Dome. You can see the Iron Dome, which is being shot up into the sky to knock down some of these rockets.

0 (37m 30s):
Were not for Iron Dome. These would all be falling and killing people. The Biden administration, of course, is seeking Ceasefires ceasefire, ceasefire, ceasefire. And because they are in hawk to their radical base, this all goes back to that central contention. The Democratic party has moved so far to the left that they can't cease straight anymore at all. We'll get to that in just one moment. First, Russia has been in the headlines for weeks due to the actions of Vladimir Putin. Obviously to comprehend Vladimir Putin's motivations, we have to examine the historical context that shaped his behaviors in the new season of what we saw in Empire of Terror host Bill Whittle unmask communism by taking a close look at the history of the Soviet Union, with the use of deep cut photographs and film journal entries and other primary sources. This tale of Terror offers a compelling presentation on the horrors that plagued the Soviet Union and the viciousness of its leaders.

0 (38m 15s):
Modern day Russia has been centuries in the making. This series will give you a better understanding of its history as well as communism that threatens our own Homeland Watch episode one streaming right now at Daily Wire Plus. If you're not a Daily Wire Plus member, go to DailyWire dot com slash subscribe. Become a member today. Again, go check that out. Bill Whittle's work is tremendous. It's absolutely amazing historical research and, and entertaining and interesting and facet. You're gonna learn something, go check it out right now over at Daily Wire Plus. Also, we have a new episode of Facts that's coming out this Saturday, so stay tuned for that on our YouTube channel or wherever you consume our content. The Daily Wire app. All about Russia things you don't know about it, the current status of the country, their challenges, and whether their interests coincide with ours.

0 (38m 57s):
Make sure you check that out on Saturday. We got to more on this in just one second. First, take a look at your business. Look around. You need better employees. I mean, the ones you have right now, they're fine, they're good, but you need better employees. Or maybe you need more employees who are good. Well, it's very hard to recruit great employees, which is why you need ZipRecruiter right now. You can Try ZipRecruiter for FREE at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. ZipRecruiter's brilliant technology leads you to that pot of gold for top talent. Immediately after you post your job. ZipRecruiter Powerful matching technology shows you qualified candidates. Once you review your list of qualified candidates, you can easily invite those top choices to apply. So they will likely apply sooner, and you'll fill that role faster. Aren't you curious to see if ZipRecruiter can help you? They can. Today is your lucky day.

0 (39m 38s):
You can Try ZipRecruiter for FREE. Just go to ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter get a quality candidate within day one. Once again, just head on over to ZipRecruiter right now. ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. That's ZipRecruiter the smartest way to hire. We've been using ZipRecruiter for years here at DailyWire, has helped us up our game year on year, every year. Go to ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire to get started for free. That's ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Okay, meanwhile, speaking of the Democratic party captured by radicals, again, you can see the radical base of the Democratic Party is pushing Joe Biden to the left. And again, it is most obvious on a couple of issues. Immigration is one, the Democratic party could easily cut a deal with Republicans or just enact executive orders in order to shut down the border.

0 (40m 21s):
And they're not doing it because they're in hawked. They the radical base. You can also see it most clearly with regards to Israel and Hamas. This is the most morally obvious conflict in modern history. It is between a democratic state that was literally just attacked with the worst Terror attack since nine 11 in the West, and a genocidal Terror group that is holding hostages right now. And suddenly the left is like, well, I don't know about that. It's, it's pretty, it's pretty convoluted. It's pretty, you know, I don't know what I would do. This is why you get morons like Nick Kristoff at the New York Times. A moral, moral dnce suggesting quote. I get this question regularly and I acknowledge that Israel faced a difficult challenge. It was hard to target Hamas without risking civilians. My answer is, what I would not do is kill 31,000 people in Vancouver, including 12,500 children and starve the entire population.

0 (41m 1s):
The question was, imagine terrorists rockets fired from Vancouver into Portland, Oregon. What would you do? Okay, but you didn't answer the question. So your question is, I wouldn't do what the Israelis would do, but I will sit here and I'll pontificate like a giant jackass. This is the left. This is the left right now. So the left has decided that basically If, you are evil enough. This means you earn a free ticket to left wing land. It's great if you're evil enough. This suggests that you're victimized. See in the victim, victim victimizer narrative, the oppressor, oppressed narrative, whoever is the worst is considered the oppressed. Because remember, you have to link that up with the left wing idea that everyone who acts badly is doing so because of childhood drama and people being mean to them.

0 (41m 42s):
That people are naturally good and naturally kind and naturally wonderful. And therefore, if somebody blows themself up in a cafe and they take a bunch of kids with them, then that's probably because they had a really rough childhood. And so they are the victim, not the victimizer, they're the victim. The worse you act, the more evil you are, the more you have been victimized by outside forces, and thus your actual victims are the victimizers, complete, reversible victim. And victimizer, the most obvious example of this is Judith Butler. So Judith Butler is one of the most damaging academics of the last 60 years. She is famously a founder of queer theory. She's a person who became famous by suggesting that all of gender is a social construct.

0 (42m 23s):
There's no linkage whatsoever between your biology and your behavior. It's all social construct. She says that the body itself is a social construct, that it's defined as all about power. She says that gender itself is a verb that constructs, it's a performance. Everything is performative. And gender is a quote, struggle to rework the norms by which bodies are experienced. So for most of her life, she considered herself a woman. Now she says, thanks to gender, non-binary nonsense that she helps create. She is a they them, but she's really just a crazy lady. And this crazy lady who has respected in academic circles because she writes absolute turgid gobbledygook that makes no sense to anyone with a sentient prefrontal cortex. this.is not just a moron when it comes to gender theory and her bizarre notions that gender is entirely constructed and made up in all the rest of this garbage.

0 (43m 10s):
But that links up with her belief that terrorists are not in fact terrorists. So she was talking about the situation between Israel and Hamas the other day, and she decided to lay down a theory. Her theory is that October 7th, which involved the, the mass rape of women, the murder of men, women, the slaughter of children, the beheading of foreigners and Jews, the kidnapping of women and repeated rape of those women. That all of that was just an act of resistance. 'cause after all, you have to understand that what we are watching right now is the coalition of the pseudo oppressed who have decided that any system in which they are unsuccessful, they are the victims and therefore they can do whatever they want. When you link up that oppressor, oppressed narrative in which everybody who is a failure has been oppressed in some way, everybody who is evil has been oppressed in some way.

0 (43m 54s):
You link that up with the friends fan known notion that resistance can come in any form. And that's how you end up with Judith Butler, one of the most evil human beings of the last 60 years. Here she was yesterday, justifying Kamas.

12 (44m 10s):
We can have different views about Kamas as a political party. We can have different views. Oh, can we, about arm armed resistance. But I think armed resistance, Hmm, more honest and historically correct to say that the uprising of October 7th was an act of armed resistance. It is not a terrorist attack and it's not an antisemitic attack. It was an attack against against Israelis. And you know, I did not like that attack.

12 (44m 50s):
I, I have gone public with this. I have gotten in trouble for saying it.

0 (44m 55s):
Oh, you didn't like it.

12 (44m 56s):
It was for me anguishing. It was anguishing. It was terrible, angry. However,

0 (45m 1s):
It made her feel bad. The inside. I

12 (45m 2s):
Would be very foolish.

0 (45m 3s):
However,

12 (45m 4s):
If I then decided that the only violence in the scene was the violence done to Israeli people, the violence done to Palestinians has been happening for decades. This was an uprising that comes out. It comes from a state of subjugation and against a violence state apparatus.

0 (45m 27s):
Oh, as, as opposed to Hamas, which is not a violent state apparatus or Iran, which is not a violent state apparatus. It's the democratic state of Israel, which has 20% Arab citizenry. That's the the violent state apparatus according to this absolutely ridiculous piece of filth. I mean, she's truly one of the worst people on the planet. Truly an awful human being. By the way. She wor she, she says that she's associated with Jewish voices for peace. The best thing about Jewish Voices for peace is the only actual word in that title that is true is of they're not Jewish, they're not for peace, and they're not really voices for peace or Jewish voices. So none of that is true. So they're of when, when she suggests, again, that narrative is the most dangerous narrative, and it's a narrative that threatens the entire west.

0 (46m 11s):
This is why when people say, why should I care about what's going on far away? I get it. I do. I understand why should you care what's going on? But it's not going on far away. It's going on in your shores. Judith Butler is a famous American academic. Her work is taught all over the United States in gender theory classes to your children. Her entire philosophy has been mainlined into the educational system, not just with regard to gender, but with regard to values as a whole. The postmodernist notion that all morality is effectively constructed, but there's a victim and a victimizer. And the victimizer is always the successful person, and the victim is always the failure. And that's because the system itself is bad. That's how you end up with gender queer, non-conforming Judith Butler on the same side as Kamas, who would gladly chop off her head in a moment where she'd be placed into the Gaza Strip.

0 (46m 59s):
Now they probably wouldn't chop off her head because they know that she's a wonderful, useful idiot for them. If they knew who she was, they would prop her up because of course she's very useful to them. But If, they had no idea. She just wandered into the Gaza Strip, should look like any other Jewish lesbian, non-conformist, left winger, and they would chop off her head right away. Okay, so, but, but you have to understand why the alliance exists. The alliance exists and it is a danger to the West. It is not just a danger to Israel, it's a danger to the West. There are millions of people who believe the softer form of what she is saying. And the left has patted this on the head. The left has imbibed from this. Well, this is the difference between the old school democratic liberals and the far left Bernie Sanders wing that is taking over the Democratic Party.

0 (47m 42s):
And it's all part of a piece. It's all part of a broader whole cloth, rewriting of morality. See, typically when you speak of Judeo-Christian morality, you mean that in any given situation, we can determine whether somebody is a victim or a victimizer by whether they are in fact a victim or a victimizer. Have they done something wrong? Have they done something that violates morality? Have they done something that violates moral scruples and rules, but that, but identity is victim or victimizer according to the left. And the best way to tell whether somebody's a victim or a victimizer is whether they stand on behalf of the system. And success within the system means you're purveyor of the system. The system is bad. The fundamental premise of all left wing coalitional thought is that the system is bad and must be torn down.

0 (48m 23s):
And so kamas can end up on the same side as queers for Palestine, even if they would kill each other given the first available opportunity. It's the coalition that matters. Uber, Alices, it's the thing that matters more than anything else. The system has to be torn down. And so when we talk about all these issues that seem utterly disconnected, like transing of the kids and support for Hamas, you have to wonder how do they end up on the same side? The answer is both want to tear down Judeo-Christian moral values. That is what they're about. And so when you see a symptom of that crop up in the moral ambivalence about Israel Hamas, that is a symptom of a much broader malady. And treating that symptom in isolation as though it has nothing to do with the underlying malady means that the, the malady is going to get worse.

0 (49m 3s):
It's going to metastasize. It's like you have a symptom of cancer and you just treat the symptom, but you pay no attention to the cancer, you're gonna die of the cancer that's the West. Right now. The bizarre left wing support of Hamas is an amazing indicator of just how deeply rooted the cancer of radical left thought has gone. And it really has gone quite deep. Now, speaking of the cancer of Left-wing thought, there's a video that's been making the rounds yesterday, and again, it demonstrates just how far left-wing thought can pervert people and destroy their lives. It is a mother who is talking about all four of her children being trans. This is statistically impossible. It is almost literally statistically impossible, meaning that your chances of a child suffering from gender dysphoria are one in several thousand, the chances of four children suffering from gender dysphoria.

0 (49m 52s):
You're talking about one in hundreds of millions or billions. And yet magically this mother came up with four trans kids. So it's not Munchausen syndrome by proxy. It's not teaching your kids a bunch of absolute garbage that is going to wreck their lives and condemn them to a future of depression, anxiety, self-hatred, and self-loathing. No, it's all just, it's, it's all just being free. It's all just natural and free. And let's be real. It's an, it's an act of resistance. Bringing your kid up in this way is an act of resistance to the gender system. 'cause again, all systems are bad. The systems have to be torn down. Here's the video of of mommy who is absolutely destroying the lives of her children.

0 (50m 33s):
It's a picture of a little boy who's dressed as a girl. In 2022, our twin daughters came to usands, told us they didn't feel the genders that they were given were truly them. They're both boys. Our son told us he was transgender too. That's a girl. And our child told us they didn't feel like a boy or a girl. Four kids. Each gender non-conforming has nothing to do with the parenting though. And then, and then hugging. Hugging your kids as they destroy their lives because you have indoctrinated them into this cult. I trusted them. And from that day on, our family changed in the most beautiful way. Wait until these kids are 20. She, she's hugging all of her, all the kids. She's, she's absolutely destroying. This is child abuse and child endangerment, and the kids should be immediately seized BCD by CPS.

0 (51m 13s):
I trusted them. And from that day, our family changed. This is about mommy. How do you know? Because she's filming it and putting it on the tiktoks. That's how you know whenever our parents film themselves with their kids talking about what wonderful parents they're, because they're so tolerant and diverse, it's about the parents. People said we were crazy to listen to them. They're just kids. They don't know who they are. They do. No. You are crazy. And you're wrecking children. You're destroying children. It's been two years today and my children are thriving. They're happy and free to be their true selves. I have a feeling that if they weren't happy that you're never gonna find out about that for mommy. Since mommy is the one who's wrecking their lives, the reason to do this is not 'cause you care about your kids. The reason to do this is because you're fighting the system. It's a political statement and your kids are just the rockets that you fire against the political system.

0 (51m 57s):
Alright guys, the rest of the show continues right now. We'll be joined on the line by Bill Wiley as a brand new series of Daily Wire Plus. If you're not a member, become member Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us. Did you know that a baby's heart begins to beat at just three weeks? At five weeks? It can be heard on ultrasound. In some cases, the heartbeat can be the baby's only defense in the womb, which is where Preborn steps in. Preborn rescues 200 babies every day from abortion simply by providing moms with free ultrasounds that allow her to hear her child's heartbeat and see their perfectly formed body in the womb. By six weeks, the baby's eyes are forming. By 10 weeks, a baby is able to suck his or her thumb. Preborn needs our help to save these precious soul.

0 (52m 38s):
For just 28 bucks, you could be the difference between the life or death of a baby If. you become a monthly sponsor. You'll receive stories and ultrasound pictures of the lives you helped to rescue. All gifts are tax deductible. A hundred percent of your gift donation goes towards saving babies. To Donate, to out pound two 50, say keyword baby. That's pound two five zero, baby. Or go to preborn.com/ Ben. That's preborn.com/ Ben. Go check them out right now. preborn.com/ Ben. It's the best thing you're gonna do today or maybe ever. Dial pound two 50. Say keyword baby. Start saving children today.