0 (-1h -1m -1s):
8 million border crossings, war in the Middle East, Ukraine, China, Russia, Iran, political in fighting high inflation. We are facing unprecedented times and the status quo just doesn't work anymore. It's time to get your house in order.

Learn About Gold (14s):
Planning for the future needs to be done Now. If you've been thinking about diversifying your portfolio and adding some financial protection, you should consider gold. Gold has often been used to protect assets against inflation. Countries are buying massive amounts of gold as a hedge against market collapse. Learn about gold.com is a simple platform to help you better understand the need for gold in your 401k or keeping gold on hand during these unprecedented times. Visit learn about gold.com and take our gold quiz to see if you qualify for up to $2,500 in free gold. Our website has extensive educational resources that can help guide you along the path of precious metals investing that's learn about gold.com. Learn about gold.com, learn about gold.com.

1 (1m 0s):
Well, the Michigan primaries were last night, and there's some interesting stories on both sides of the aisle. The bigger story, of course, is on the democratic side of the aisle where the incumbent president of the United States only won about 80% of the vote. Now that sounds like a lot except for the fact that a huge number of people in Michigan voted uncommitted. That was a concerted attempt by Crazies in the Democratic party in Michigan, particularly Crazies, who support Hamas, many of them in Dearborn, Michigan, who decided that they were going to show Joe Biden that unless he swivels his support from Israel to Hamas, he is somehow going to lose Michigan to Donald Trump. And this raises a serious question, why is Joe Biden so dependent on the Crazies in his own party?

1 (1m 42s):
After all, Joe Biden came into office running against the Crazies in his own party. You'll recall if you go all the way back to the 2020 primaries that he was running against a crazy person, Bernie Sanders, who's a nut job old socialist, and Joe Biden was running as the moderate and In fact. It was only because Jim Clyburn in South Carolina endorsed Joe Biden and the entire Democratic Party unified to stop Bernie Sanders, the crazy guy that Joe Biden ended up winning the nomination and then defeating Donald Trump in the 2020 election. And then Joe Biden made a signal error. He decided that he was going to be LBJ, he was going to be FDR, not a placeholder for the next generation of Democrats, but he was going to be a transformative president. And if you're on the left, being a transformative president means spending more money than God or man has ever seen.

1 (2m 26s):
If you are on the left, then being a transformative president means embracing all of the most woke versions of politics, ranging from diversity, equity, and inclusion to trans politics. You have to embrace the most radical possible position and drag the American public along with you. It also means on the foreign policy front, the the realities of foreign policy exist for every president, which is why virtually every president talks one way when they're on the campaign trail, and then they get into office and they realize the way the world actually works and they swivel how they actually govern. George W. Bush came into office pledging to be an isolationist, and then nine 11 happened. Barack Obama came into office pledging to be an isolationist, and then he involved us in a bunch of Middle Eastern conflict. Donald Trump came into office pledging to be an isolationist, and then he brokered the Abraham Accords and took pretty harsh stances against Russia and China.

1 (3m 12s):
Joe Biden came into office pledging that he was going to get out of Afghanistan and make America less involved in the world. And now there are two major ongoing wars in the world in which the United States has indirect involvement. So in other words, Joe Biden never really had the opportunity to be full on left wing when it came to foreign policy because being the president of the United States basically forestalls that his one attempt at doing that, which was the disastrous pullout from Afghanistan cratered his presidency. If you look at his approval ratings throughout his presidency, Joe Biden's approval ratings dramatically sank in the aftermath of the Afghanistan poll, and they have never recovered. They have remained in the low forties ever since. All of which means that if Joe Biden had come into office and then governed as he pledged, he was going to govern as a left wing moderate, a liberal moderate, somebody who sought consensus, somebody who is just going to restore a sense of normalcy and moderation to American politics.

1 (4m 1s):
He would not now be in the dire straits that he is. Moderates have fallen off the bandwagon. Independence are now looking at Trump, and by the polling data, a plurality of independence favor Donald Trump over Joe Biden right now, which is why Donald Trump is up in the polling against Joe Biden. How Joe Biden loses independence to Donald Trump is an amazing story because again, independents are very off put by Donald Trump on a personal level, they voted against him in 2020, late breaking independent voters in 2016 voted two to one for Donald Trump in 2020, late breaking independent voters voted two to one for Joe Biden, and now they're shifting back to Trump. There's only one reason for that, and that is that Joe Biden allowed his ambitions to be a historic president that they would make statues of to overcome his good political sense.

1 (4m 42s):
He didn't wanna be a C Clintonian third way president. He wanted to be like Barack Obama. He wanted to be somebody who people thought of for generations to come as a transformative president in American history. And because of that, he's now alienated the actual base that he wants held, and that base is now looking much more seriously at President Trump as his rival. And that means that he is enthralled to the Crazies. And that is the story of what happened in Michigan last night. Again, when you look at these statistics, what you see is that Joe Biden won approximately 618,000 votes. First of all, that's a very large number of votes for an incumbent president in a, in a primary. If you go back to like 2012, and you look at the Michigan primary in 2012, For The Democrats, what you will see is that Barack Obama in the Michigan primaries in 2012 when he was the incumbent president, which would be the same position as as Joe Biden right now, he only won about 174,000 votes.

1 (5m 35s):
In other words, no one showed up to vote in those primaries. Why did no one show up to vote in the primaries? Because everybody kinda was like, eh, whatever. Who cares? He's gonna be the nominee why might even bothering to show up. But for Joe Biden, a lot of people showed up. 618,000 people showed up to vote for Joe Biden. But the bigger story, of course, is that 101,000 people showed up and voted uncommitted. And there was an overt attempt again by the Crazies in Michigan, led by people like Rashida Tib to jack up the number of people who voted uncommitted. Another 23,000 voted for Marianne Williamson. Another 20,000 voted for Dean Phillips. So Joe Biden ends up winning about 81% of the vote total in Michigan. But again, that big story is gonna be the uncommitted voters because the idea is that if those uncommitted voters decide not to vote for Joe Biden in the actual election in November, then you could very well lose the state.

1 (6m 21s):
Now, he won that state by about 150,000 votes last time. A hundred thousand is a lot of votes. Are all those people gonna vote actively against Joe Biden? Probably not. But say half of those people decide that they are not going to show up to the polls for Joe Biden because they're unhappy with Joe Biden. Well, that means that he's in real trouble in Michigan, which means, again, when you steer away from the middle, that means you are more reliant on your remaining voting base, and his remaining voting base is full of crazy people. And that is why you are seeing Joe Biden constantly embracing crazy unpopular positions mean. The reality is that the polling data suggests that when it comes to, for example, the Israel Hamas conflict, the American people are broadly supportive of Israel.

1 (7m 2s):
The latest Harvard Harris poll shows that 82% of Americans say they support Israel more than Hamas. All Hamas voters are in the Democratic party. 68% of Americans say that Israel is trying to avoid civilian casualties in fighting its war with Hamas. So in other words, there's pretty heavy support. America remains a very pro-Israel country, but not inside the crazy wing of the Democratic Party. And that's the part that Joe Biden has made himself totally dependent upon. And we should understand that that Democratic party, the, the Crazies in the Democratic Party, they don't even know they're crazy. That is the thing to understand about crazy people in general. Crazy people in general do not know that they are crazy.

1 (7m 43s):
They think they, they are perfectly sane, and you are crazy. These folks are nuts, and they can't even tell that they are nuts. They deny the level of the nuttiness Joe Biden does too. Joe Biden pretends this is all normal politics as usual, it is not. It is not normal politics as usual to have a hundred thousand people vote against you because you cite against an actual genocidal terrorist group. That is wild. It's more on this than just moment.

ExpressVPN (8m 6s):
First, you've heard me talk about how important it's to have a VPN to protect your online privacy before choosing A VPN you trust is equally as important. you know, I actually research the show's Sponsors because I wanna recommend brands I believe in. I can say with full confidence express, VPN is the best VPN on the market for starters, ExpressVPN does not log your online activity. Lots of cheap or free VPNs make money by selling your data to advertisers. But ExpressVPN doesn't do that. They've even developed a technology called Trusted Server that makes their VPN servers incapable of storing any data at all. Express VPN also uses lightweight. That's a new VPN protocol. They engineered to make user speeds faster than ever. I've tried a lot of VPNs in the past. They can sometimes slow your connection, but ExpressVPN is always blazing fast and let's me stream videos in HD quality with zero buffering, not to mention Express VPN. Really, really easy to use. You don't need any technical skills to set it up. You just fire up the app, you tap one button and now you're connected. Even your grandparents could do it. I'm not just the one saying this. It's Business Insider or The Verge. A lot of other tech journals, they rate ExpressVPN as the number one VPN on planet earth. Protect yourself with the VPN I know and trust. Use my link at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben today. Get an extra three months free on that one year package. That's ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben ExpressVPN dot com slash spend To learn more.

1 (9m 15s):
According to the Wall Street Journal, uncommitted blew past their original target of 10,000 voters and clocked in at a figure substantially higher on Tuesday than it has been in recent Michigan primaries. And they have now tallied about 13% of the entire tally by comparison. Uncommitted rule about 11% of the vote in the 2012 Michigan Democratic primary won by President Barack Obama. But again, the numbers were way lower. In 2012, David Axel Rods a former senior advisor to Obama, said, Michigan is going to be a marginal state this fall. If the voters who registered their protest walk away this fall, it could be decisive. He says, this was a cost free vote, this is a good point to make in the fall. It will be a choice of much greater consequence. In other words, if you don't vote or if you vote uncommitted in the actual election, then all those voters in Dearborn, what are they gonna vote for?

1 (9m 58s):
Trump the most pro-ISIS Israel president in American history. Good luck with that. But again, this goes to the broader point, Joe Biden has put himself enthrall to the radicals, and the radicals have him by the short hairs, which is why the New York Times has an entire piece today titled Young voters say their discontent goes deeper than Israel and Gaza. The energy on Michigan College campuses ahead of the 2022 midterms students said, was electric. Armed with promises to protect abortion rights, democratic candidates held large campus rallies, drawing crowds who came prepared to cheer rather than to protest. On election day, students showed up in droves, but before the Democratic presidential primary on Tuesday, the energy seems to have morphed into apathy or anger. Young activists have been at the forefront of sustained backlash to President Biden's staunch support of Israel and his military campaign in Gaza.

1 (10m 39s):
Interviews with more than two dozen students across the state indicated a deeper well of dissatisfaction, not just with the incumbent president, but the prospect of once again having to choose between Biden and Trump. People decades older than they are, voters under 30 who backed Biden by more than 20 points in 2020 are unenthusiastic about a rematch. Voters under 30 overwhelmingly voiced their opposition to the conflict in a New York Times Sienna College poll saying, Israel had not done enough to prevent civilian casualties in Gaza. And the military campaign should stop again. When you make your entire campaign dependent on the low propensity voters in the youth vote, when you make your entire campaign dependent on people who are not only low propensity but radical, that of course is going to shape the rest of your campaign.

1 (11m 20s):
And you have only one choice at that point, and that is to steer into the radicalism. The Joe Biden is so dependent on the Crazies in his base that he has to steer in that direction. It explains everything that he's doing right now, and the radicals know it, which is why you have pieces like the one in Politico today about the Michigan lawmaker, the Democratic floor leader of the Michigan House of Representatives, a man named Abraham Aish, who is denouncing Joe Biden. He said he stood with no spine and did not demand peace for Palestinians, did not, did not demand peace for Israelis, instead, continues to fund a genocide. He's now 30 and he's the first Arab American House majority leader in the history of the state of Michigan, which again, kudos to the Michigan State Republican Party for being completely incompetent at their jobs.

1 (12m 4s):
Really well done. But this is the the narrative that the media have been pushing, and they're gonna continue to push it. Now, Joe Biden does have enough strategy. He couldn't navigate away from the Crazies. In other words, Joe Biden could take a moderate position on everything from say, the border to abortion from spending to Israel. He could take the moderate mainstream position, the 80% position, but we have moved out of the realm of normal politics in this country, really have. It used to be that the best way to win an election was to take a bunch of 80% positions, find the 80% positions, things where Americans were 80% pro the position, and then you do that. But instead, we have now decided to abandon those in favor of 43% propositions, and then hope that there are enough people in that 43% who are gonna vote to outweigh the people on the other side who presumably are unenthusiastic or not going to vote.

1 (12m 58s):
It's, it's an amazing, amazing thing. And make no mistake, these folks are legitimately quite crazy. So for example, Cornell West, who is on the left of the Democratic Party, right? He's running as an independent, but of course he is a far leftist and is quite representative of some of the Crazies in the Democratic party. Cornell West spent his day yesterday suggesting a moral equivalence between Israel and Hamas. These are the people Joe Biden is going to try to pander to. You can see his policy already shifting.

2 (13m 25s):
Do you believe in the idea of eradicating a terrorist group like Hamas, which did such barbaric things to innocent civilians?

3 (13m 35s):
Well, one, I mean, you and I know that a Jewish life has exactly the same value as a Palestinian life. A Palestinian baby has the same value as a Jewish baby. The question is, how do you get at the roots of it anytime you kill an innocent person, that is a crime against humanity. Did Hamas commit war crimes? Absolutely. Murder is murder. Now, I believe in just war, combatants can kill combatants. I'm not like Martin Luther King, I'm not a pacifist, but combatants must not kill civilians or innocent people no matter who it, it is IDF or Hamas. But the, but the problem is you're going to call Hamas a terrorist group, and the IDF is killing innocent people.

3 (14m 15s):
They're terrorists too.

1 (14m 18s):
Okay. Cornell West is an absolute clown, but again, representative of a huge clown base inside the Democratic Party. It's an amazing thing. We'll get to more on this in just one second. First,

Kars4Kids (14m 27s):
a child's life is molded by his or her home school friends community. A positive experience in all these areas helps build a healthy child. Cars for kids. That's Cars With a K is a registered nonprofit organization aimed at giving children the tools to succeed in life. If you have a car that's just sitting in your driveway taking up space, you should consider donating it to Cars for Kids. you know, cars for Kids, they've got that jingle, right? The 1, 8, 7, 7 cars for kids, KAR s, you, you know it. If you're tired of looking at that old car in your driveway or hearing your spouse complain about it, why not let Cars for Kids take care of it for you? Here's how it works. Visit their website@carsforkids.org slash Ben. Let them take care of it from there, the whole process only takes two minutes. Cars for Kids will schedule a pickup at a time that's convenient for you. If you don't have a car, you can still help Cars for Kids accept non-cash donations of school supplies, clothing, sports equipment, and more. So what exactly are you waiting for? Call now or visit cars for kids.org/ Ben to get the ball rolling today. That's cars of the K, the number4@carsfourkids.org slash Ben. That's cars four kids.org/ Ben.

1 (15m 28s):
by the way, if you really want to know the extent to which the radicals and the Democratic Democratic Party are in control, look at James Carville. So James Carville, this is the part that's amazing. The moderates in the Democratic Party have decided they need to cave to the radicals. So James Carville is one of the more moderate members of the Democratic Party, right? He's Clint, he is the, the designer of the C Clintonian. Third way, he and Dick Morris were the people who basically designed triangulation. James Carville has been the person who's been on the ramparts in the Democratic Party saying, you need to stop talking about men and women's bathrooms, and you need to start talking about, say, economic issues. But here he is basically acknowledging that the Crazies now run the party. He says that if we get to Chicago, the Democratic Convention, which is gonna happen in Chicago this year, again, I gotta say just amazing writing this year of Trump, where you have the Democrats going back to Chicago for the convention, the same place that the 1968 convention took place in which you had a, a hotly contested democratic primary fight.

1 (16m 26s):
The assassination of a major political figure in RFK, in, in which you had massive riots over the Vietnam War. That's where they chose to have their convention this year, which is really well done. So here's James Carville saying that if we get to the Chicago Convention and the Gaza War is still continuing, then it's gonna get wild.

4 (16m 45s):
You know, Diane was talking about this uncommitted vote in Michigan because of the, you know, the, the war in Gaza. There are some Democratic activists who are saying they want to, they wanna see Democrats vote uncommitted instead of for President Biden. What do you think about the concerns about that? Are they, well-founded? Is this being blown out of proportion? What do you think?

5 (17m 6s):
Well, first of all, congratulations on your new show. I'm honored to be a part of it. Thanks, James. I think this issue deep, and I think it's a lot deeper than just progressive adv advocates are young people or college campuses. I hope the president can get some kind of ceasefire and take this off the front burner, because frankly, it, it, it's damaged politically. It's pretty substantial. And if we get to Chicago at the convention and this thing is still going on, I don't wanna think about what's gonna happen there.

1 (17m 36s):
Okay? Now, understand that, that when James Carville is caving to the radicals, that shows you that they have to, he doesn't want to, they have to. And then of course, you have the great minds of the New York Times who also are urging Joe Biden to cave to the radicals. That, of course would be morons like Thomas Friedman legitimately one of the dumbest people in the history of foreign policy commentary. Thomas Friedman, a man who gets all of his advice from cab drivers in random places. And, and this moron is still advising the Biden administration on foreign policy has a piece in the New York Times today taught title quote, Israel is losing its greatest asset acceptance was that Israel's greatest asset? I noticed that Israel has another asset, and it's called the very powerful military. If Jews were waiting for acceptance for all of human history, that was a strategy that failed pretty dramatically until Israel actually arose and had, you know, an Air force.

1 (18m 24s):
I noticed that Thomas Friedman seems to like the Jews having the goodwill of the world up until the point where they defend themselves and start killing terrorists. He says, I've spent the past few days traveling from New Delhi to Dubai and Iman, I have an urgent message to deliver to President Biden and the Israeli people. I'm seeing the increasingly rapid erosion of Israel standing among friendly nations, a level of acceptance and legitimacy that was painstakingly built up over decades. And if Biden is not careful, America's global standing will plummet right along with Israel's. So where exactly is, is he? Is he feeling the legitimately drain away? He says the legitimacy is draining away in the Arab world. Oh, shocker. I can't believe it.

1 (19m 5s):
But why is he really doing that? The reason that he's doing that, Thomas Friedman is not only because he happens to be wrong on foreign policy literally all the time, but because he knows and everyone else knows, Joe Biden abandoned the thing that got him to office in the first place, and now he's in serious trouble, which means that now he's putting pressure on Israel in the middle of a war against a terrorist enemy. Israel has now reduced Kamasi's serious control over the Gaza Strip to the city of Rafa. It is in the south of the Gaza Strip. Everyone knows it's a final climactic battle in the Gaza Strip. And what is Joe Biden doing as Israel is prepared to go in and kill presumably Yasir, who is the leader of Kamas, the mastermind of the October 7th attacks, he's telling Israel effectively to back off, according to Axios, the Biden administration gave Israel until mid-March to sign a letter provided by the US on Tuesday that gives assurances, it will abide by international law while using US weapons and allow humanitarian aid in tag Gaza.

1 (19m 57s):
Through usands, Israeli officials told to Axios, the assurances are now a requirement under a memo issued earlier this month by President Biden. While it doesn't single out Israel, the new policy came after some democratic senators expressed concern over the Israeli military campaign in Gaza. If the assurances aren't provided by the deadline, US weapons transfers to the country will be paused. Now here's the problem with that idiotic notion. International law is a kymera, it is a law. International law is largely designed by people who do not abide by it under any circumstances and only apply it to people they seek to hamstring. International law, in other words, is a joke that is never how foreign policy has run. The Wilsonian notion that there is some sort of great Congress of powers that gets together and decides the morality of the world and that international law now applies is silliness.

1 (20m 40s):
It has always been silliness. And yet that is what Joe Biden is now, is now pushing. And the why is he doing that? He's doing that because he wants the votes in in Michigan. That's all. It's very simple. The memorandum was issued by the White House after pressure from Senator Chris Van Holland of Maryland. Three US officials told Axios, the Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer told the White House that he was concerned an amendment would divide the Democratic caucus in the sentence Senate. And so what did, what did Schumer do? Instead of standing up to his own Crazies, he told Joe Biden to just do it as an executive action. Again, not a shock at all. This is what the Democratic Party is now. So is Joe Biden. Are the Democrats likely to placate the Crazies? The answer is no, because they're crazy.

1 (21m 19s):
This is the problem. Once you are enthralled to the Crazies, everything runs outta control pretty quickly. So who are the people who are voting uncommitted in Michigan? Well, they're probably people like the people that we saw last night over at Berkeley. We'll get to more on this in just a moment.

Birch Gold Group (21m 32s):
First, we're experiencing a lot of global instability as we plunge into primary season. How are you protecting your family in the middle of all of this chaos? The fact is, there's one asset that has withstood famine, war, political and economic upheaval, dating back to ancient times. That, of course, is gold. It's not too late to diversify an old IRA or 401k into gold and birch Gold Group can help you with that. Birch gold can help you create a well thought out and balanced investment strategy. They'll help you convert an existing IRA or 401k into an IRA in gold without paying a penny out of pocket. Diversify into gold today. Just text Ben to 98. 98 98 for a free info kit with an A plus rating with the Better Business Bureau. Countless five star views, thousands of happy customers. I encourage you to check out Birch Gold today. Text Ben to 98, 98 98. Claim your free info kit. Protect your savings with gold the way that I did. Diversification is always a smart business strategy, particularly in really tenuous times. This is a tenuous time. You should check out my friends over at Birch Gold text Ben to 98. 98 98. Get in touch with them today. Ask all your questions. Text Ben to 98. 98 98 to get started with Birch Gold.

1 (22m 32s):
So over at uc, Berkeley, there was, as per our usual arrangement, a massive protest that turned into a riot. It was a private event and Jewish students were threatened, assaulted, and prevented from attending the speech by a Jewish speaker on campus. Students were called derogatory names like Dirty Jew or you Jew. Here is some tape of what was going on at Berkeley. They had to cancel the event and evacuate the hall

7 (23m 3s):
Normal day as a Jewish student trying to go to one of our events

1 (23m 7s):
Protesters who are blocking Jewish students from entering the event. This is, this is what they do. These are the people that Joe Biden is catering To. Precisely the group that Joe Biden is catering to college age students who hate Jews. That that is the, those are the people that Joe Biden is very, very hot on getting. And what's amazing about all this, again, is that by and large Americans support Israel against Kamas. If Joe Biden had shown one iota of actual credible leadership, rather than trying to have the baby to placate the nuts, then he would be more popular on this issue. you know what Americans like, they like when American allies actually win wars. you know what they don't like when American allies lose wars?

1 (23m 47s):
you know how we know that? Because Joe Biden lost a war in Afghanistan and it tanked him. Joe Biden's, failure to secure anything approaching victory in Ukraine. Joe Biden's, failure to secure anything approaching victory with regard to Israel and Hamas is a bad thing for him politically because he, if you decide to, that is a shrinking base of nuts. And he is, he, he wants, he wants the nuts. What's amazing about that is that of course puts the nuts in the driver's seat. And let's be very clear, Joe Biden has now done that internationally. Not only domestically, because you know, who knows They're in control now, Hamas. So Joe Biden the other day, he, he made a claim that a ceasefire was mere moments away. He was eating ice cream and he made the claim that a, a ceasefire was about to happen, all would be well.

1 (24m 30s):
And, and then Hamas was like, Nope. And the reason Hamas said no is because they know that they can Jack Joe Biden around. The more intransigent Hamas is, the more they make demands that are not fulfilled, the more pressure Biden will exert on Israel, not on Kamas. At no point does Joe Biden ever say to Kamas, okay guys, you know what? We tried to make a deal. The deal is not forthcoming Israel have at it. At no point does Joe Biden say that because he's afraid that if he does that under any circumstances, he loses Michigan. So he is now handed the baton to the terrorist group in a variety of ways, as we've discussed over the last couple of days. For example, the Palestinian government, not the head of the government, Mahmud Debas the dictator, but the rest of the Palestinian elected government, I say elected 'cause they're not elected government resigned to make way for a Hamas led government.

1 (25m 16s):
And then Joe Biden is going to tap that government on the head and call it the new Palestinian government new boss, same as the old boss, except worse in the West Bank. And now Hamas officials say on Tuesday, there was no breakthrough in the mediated talks with Israel aimed at pausing the war and freeing the remaining hostages and the Gaza Strip that came one day after Joe Biden said that AC cease fire was imminent. Aem Naim Hamas spokesperson said in a text message, the militant group had yet to formally receive any new proposals since senior Israeli officials met with Qatar, Egypt and US in Paris last week to advance a possible deal. Another Kamas official Ahmad Abdelhadi said the group was sticking to its demand that Israel agreed to a long-term ceasefire. And that leaks out. The talks were designed to pressure kamas to soften its position.

1 (25m 58s):
By long-term ceasefire. They mean leaving Hamas in place, which is the only thing Hamas needs in order to declare victory. Understand that in a normal, traditional war, when you degrade the enemy's military capacity, the way that Israel has done Hamas and Hamas does not have offensive projective capacity at this point. That would normally be considered a win. That's not the way that it works in the Middle East. In the Middle East, the way that it works is if you provoke a war and you get your ass absolutely kicked, but you survive and you wave your flag, you are somehow the victor. That is the way this idiotic regime works in the Middle East, and Hamas knows that. So all they're looking to do at this point is survive. How crazy are the Crazies? They're so crazy that the moderates among the Crazies are still crazy.

1 (26m 38s):
So for example, there was a tweet that was going around yesterday. Everybody was laughing at it, but it does demonstrate the sort of standards that proponents of Hamas and the, and the Palestinians more broadly. It, it does demonstrate how nuts a lot of these folks are. There is a person, his name is Muhammad Urd. He's a Palestinian writer and poet, and he lives in East Jerusalem. He was born in East Jerusalem. He, and he apparently graduated from the Savannah College of Art and Design with a bachelor of fine Arts degree. And he studies poetry at Brooklyn College as well. He's a correspondent for the nation.

1 (27m 21s):
So you know, a well-respected member of the pro-Palestinian left, obviously. So he, he gave a speech not all that long ago in which he claimed that quote, our day will come, but we must not be complacent. Our day will come, but we must normalize massacres as the status quo. Talking about October 7th, well, the other day he tweeted out this quote, you can't protest peacefully. You can't boycott, you can't hunger strike. You can't hijack planes, you can't block traffic, you can't throw molotovs, you can't self emulate, you can't heckle politicians, you can't march, you can't riot, you can't dissent, you just can't be. And that tells the whole story of the Crazies that Joe Biden has turned this party over to not the Muhammad occurred, is, is a, is a, is an American citizen who can vote, but his allies in the United States can.

1 (28m 7s):
Let's more on this in just one moment.

Grand Canyon University (28m 8s):
First, Grand Canyon University. It's a private Christian university in beautiful Phoenix, Arizona. GCU believes that our creator has endowed all of us with certain unalienable rights to life, liberty, pursuit of happiness. And they believe in equal opportunities. And that the American dream starts with purpose. GCU will equip you to serve others in ways that promote your flourishing, which will create a ripple effect of transformation for generations to come. Whether you're pursuing a bachelor's, masters, or a doctoral degree, Grand Canyon University online on campus and hybrid learning environments are designed to help you achieve your degree. Find your purpose today at Grand Canyon University private Christian affordable. Visit gcu.edu. That's gcu.edu.

1 (28m 44s):
And I just wanna analyze this for a moment because it tells the whole story of the, of the Arab Israeli conflict in like one tweet. His version of just being okay, his version of Leave Us Alone and Leave Us Alone is a, is a pretty well-respected argument that is made by people on all sides of various political aisles. Leave us alone is a pretty good argument, right? Leave, leave me alone, I'm not bothering you. Leave me alone. But his version of Leave us alone, right? Leave me be, is blocking traffic, throwing molet of cocktails, self emulating and hijacking planes, right? I mean, that's a crazy statement. You can't just let us be. It's so, it's so difficult when you won't let us hijack planes.

1 (29m 27s):
It's so hard when you won't let us throw Molotov cocktails or set ourselves on fire. These are the people that Joe Biden has, has hitched his boat to good luck to him. by the way, things are gonna get worse before they get better because of all of this. The great lie in the Middle East is that when you broker these temporary hnas, these temporary ceasefires, that this somehow calms the waters in the Middle East. That is wrong. The only thing that matters as always is victory. The only thing that matters is power and control. That's all that matters in this region of the world. There is no baseline agreement on values. That means that if Hamas survives, Kamas is therefore strengthened, Hezbollah is strengthened. And by the way, just to note the double standard here, it truly is amazing.

1 (30m 7s):
According to the Wall Street Journal, the start of Ramadan looms as an informal but urgent deadline to strike in Israel Kamasi's fire as the militant group called Wednesday for mass protests during Islamic Holy Month, that Israel fears is part of a plan to spread the conflict outside of Gaza. Israeli leaders have said they would launch an offensive in against Hamas' last stronghold in Gaza. If a deal is not reached by Ramadan set to start around March 10th, the US Egypt and Qatar have warned Israel against the ground offensive in Rafa as it could endanger negotiations. Negotiations, by the way, of Hamas is totally playing for all they are worth. On Wednesday, Ismail Hania, the head of Hamas' political bureau from his five star hotel in Qatar called on Palestinians outside Gaza to converge on all Za mosque, right? This is the routine that happens pretty much every year around Ramadan in which Muslims are allowed to gather en masse at all Za.

1 (30m 52s):
And then they start hurdling Molotov cocktails in rocks at Israeli soldiers. And then when Israeli soldiers squash it, they suggest that it's some form of a brutal occupation and evil army action to stop them from worshiping on the Temple Mount, which as a multiple time visitor to the Temple Mount, there are only restrictions on me as a Jew. There are no restrictions on Muslims who are worshiping at all. Oxa Mosque zero. If you go there to worship, you're fine. If I go up on the Temple Mount and I openly pray, I will be expelled from the Temple Mount. That is the way that it works up there. Christians too, by the way, but not the truth doesn't matter in this region of the world, all that matters is power. And again, the amazing thing here is that look at the, the West can't even comprehend, but they can't, the, the West has now allied itself for PR purposes with groups like Hamas or the Palestinian Authority because once you try to broker a deal and you legitimize one of the sides of the deal that is a terrorist group as a legitimate side of the deal, you now become their proponent.

1 (31m 45s):
This is exactly what happened with Barack Obama and Iran. He signed a terrible Iran deal and then he had to spend the rest of his, his administration running cover for the Iranians because if he had acknowledged the Iranians were lying and sponsoring terror everywhere, then it would've looked like he was a sucker. He had sunk cost fallacy about his own Iran deal. And the same thing is happening here with regard to these negotiations. The United States is like, let's do negotiations with Kamas and Kamas, like, alright, let's do it. And then they're doing whatever they wanna do. And the US is like, well we do want them part of the negotiations, Joe Biden's like, well he we, we do want them as part of the negotiation and that means we have to treat their demands reasonably. Meanwhile, they're literally looking to weapon up for their holiday. Now just have a question for all the Christians, Jews, non-Muslims in the audience and moderate Muslims in the audience.

1 (32m 30s):
by the way, why would you, why would your holiday be the occasion of launching a vast terror attack slash war? It is amazing the double standard here. If you're a radical Muslim, not only can you use your own mosque as a shield for your weaponry, which routinely happens, not only can you use your own holiday as a shield, oh my God, you can't attack us on Ramadan. It's very holy to us also, we're gonna kill you because it's Ramadan and now it's our time. But these are radical Muslim propositions. But also when you guys have a holiday, that's the best time to attack again. October 7th was, which is on the Jewish calendar, probably the happiest day of the year. And that was the perfect time for Kamas to rush across the border and slaughter 1200 people.

1 (33m 11s):
Joe Biden has wedded himself to this and he has done this because he refuses to moderate on any issue. His vision outweighed his capacity. He wanted to be transformative and he has been all right. And once you are dancing with the devil, that dance just gets faster and faster. And it's not just, by the way, with regard to Israel and Kamas, although that's the most clear cut example because of what's happening in Michigan, it's also with regard to the border, the obvious question on the border. Why won't Joe Biden shut the border? Everyone wants him to by polling data, Joe Biden needs to close the border. He needs to take harsh action on the border. Donald Trump is destroying him on this issue in all polling data, it has now jumped to the top of the heap among issues that Americans actually care about.

1 (33m 51s):
And still Joe Biden is dithering and doing nothing. Why? Seriously, why? And the only possible reason is because he is enthralled to his Crazies. He's enthralled to the nut jobs. So for example, Corina Jean Pere yesterday, she said, Joe Biden is heading down to the border. She was asked, so is he going to announce any executive action or anything to, you know, stop the giant float of illegal immigration? Like, nope, actually, nope.

8 (34m 15s):
Anything new that you could share about the president's visit to the border on Thursday? Does he have any plans to announce any executive actions?

9 (34m 22s):
So I don't have anything to, I'm not gonna get ahead of the president, don't have anything to, to announce at this time. We've, we've spoken to executive actions, I've spoken to that many times. We think the bottom line is the way to have dealt with this border. The challenge that we see at the border, what we see with this immigration, a broken immigration system that has been broken for decades is if we, if Republicans have moved forward with, with a bipartisan deal that came out of the Senate.

1 (34m 51s):
Okay, so no, that's a no. They're not gonna do anything about any of this. Meanwhile, by the way the bodies are stacking up, we'll get to more on this in just one second. First,

Food For The Poor (34m 59s):
during this new year, it's important to slow down and think about how we can lift up and help others. Thankfully there is a company that dedicates everything to helping the less fortunate that is Food. For The Poor for over 40 years, food For The Poor has served communities throughout the Caribbean and Latin America through a network of trusted ministry partners and local churches. Food, For, The, Poor supplies, non-perishable food items and protein rich meals to children and families suffering from hunger. Many businesses and informal economies like day labor and local markets have eliminated jobs or close permanently, leaving many parents with no way to earn money. Local ministry partners, feeding centers, hospitals and schools are experiencing rising numbers of malnourished kids. With the help of their generous donors. Food, For, The, Poor is able to provide food, housing, healthcare, education, fresh water, emergency relief and much more. So how can you help? Well, thanks to a meal for a meal match, a donation of 80 bucks can feed two children for an entire year. 160 bucks would feed four children. 320 bucks would feed eight children. Your generous gift today changes how Families View Tomorrow. Donate now by texting Plate to 5 1 5 5 5 or by visiting food For The Poor dot org slash Shapiro. That's Plate to 51 5 5 5 or food For The Poor dot org slash Shapiro.

1 (36m 7s):
Bill Mulligan who does an excellent job reporting on these issues over the past 24 hours, he's just been reporting crime after crime. So for example, local media in Washington DC reporting a Salvador an illegal Im immigrant, has been arrested in connection with the murder of a 2-year-old child. On February 8th, ice says that he was released from custody after arrests multiple times in 2023 after the local jurisdiction ignored ice detainers. The 2-year-old was caught in the crossfire of a, of a gang war. That was not the only illegal immigrant serious crime over the course of the last 48 hours to to pop into the news. According to Fox eight Live, a 19-year-old Honduran man has been arrested in Ken Louisiana following a series of violent crimes.

1 (36m 47s):
According to police, the Ken Police Department says the investigation began Tuesday, February 20th when it was notified of the rape of a 14-year-old girl. At knife point, the suspect was then identified as an immigrant, a Honduran in the United States illegally. Apparently police say a man was getting out of his vehicle and was approached by this person and demanding his property during the robbery. Police say that the perpetrator stabbed the victim multiple times in the face and the back officers of the scene found this illegal immigrant covered in blood. The Chief of police. It says undocumented immigrants are difficult to identify due to lack of documentation this person had reportedly used aliases in the past including Elvin Lockett.

1 (37m 29s):
Then according to chief Jason Owens, who's the 26th chief of US Border Patrol, quote, in the last 72 hours, US border patrol agents throughout the southwest border region have apprehended 11 individuals with violent criminal histories. Their criminal histories include child molestation, aggravated assault, rape, murder and manufacture and trafficking of firearms. And Joe Biden still won't close the border, he still won't close the border. There's only one reason for that and that is because again, once more, once you have a band in the middle, you have to tack to the extremes. Joe Biden has made that decision and now we are all reaping the whirlwind from that. In just one second we'll get to Democratic politicians who don't actually want to reap that whirlwind, particularly first.

Jeremy's Razors (38m 9s):
Tomorrow is Leap Day. That day comes once every four years. So if you're born on Leap Day, congratulations, you're still much younger than the rest of us. Jeremy's Razors is offering an insane deal and by that we mean you would be crazy to miss it. Tomorrow only you can get a Precision five trial set, a toilet True Travel Bag, leftist Tears, Tumblr and Jeremy's microaggression chocolates all bundled together for 29 bucks. That's an $80 value. You don't wanna miss the deal. This once every four year sale is tomorrow February 29th. It's for one day only. Set a reminder. Whatever you have to do, get it tomorrow at jeremy's razors.com before the offer ends.

1 (38m 39s):
Okay? Meanwhile, okay, there are Democrats who do not wish to go down with the sinking radical ship that apparently includes Eric Adams. Eric Adams ran again on a more moderate platform as mayor of New York. Now he's saying that he wants to deport migrants accused of serious crimes. Now you might think that that'd be like a normal proposition wrong. The Democratic City Council is trying to oppose him. According to the New York Times, for years, New York City leaders have relished the status of being a so-called Sanctuary City, where local law enforcement cooperation with federal immigration officials is limited on Tuesday. Mayor Eric Adams made it clear his views were different. If he had his way, he said he would permit law enforcement in New York City to work openly with immigration authorities to more readily deport. Migrants were suspected of serious crimes. There's some people that feel they should be able to remain here, keep their actions until they're eventually convicted.

1 (39m 21s):
He said, I don't subscribe to that theory. A reporter asked Adams about due process. He said they didn't give due process to the person they shot or punched or killed. There's a philosophical disagreement here. The city council says there are no plans to revisit these laws again. That divide is the Democratic Party in a nutshell, which is why the Democratic Party is In fact in a process of shrinking away. Now the Democratic Party has also yet to take advantage of positions on which the Republican party is not in the 80%. So take the situation with regard to Ukraine. So the United States, there's a bunch of conflicting data on what Americans think of funding for Ukraine. According to a recent u gov poll in the United States, the 43% of Americans believe that the West should continue to support Ukraine in its efforts against Russia until such a time as Russia withdraws from the country.

1 (40m 14s):
Even if that means the war on its effects last longer. Some 23% of Americans say they want to encourage a negotiate a piece to end the fighting, even if it means Russia still has control over some parts of Ukraine. So a plurality of Americans still believe that funding for Ukraine would be the proper way to do this. And when it comes to whether the West is doing enough to prevent the Russians from winning in Ukraine, the United States, 46% of Americans say that we're not doing enough. 25% say that we are doing more than enough or enough. Again, this is a u gov poll from January. As far as the level of aid being sent to Ukraine, 33% of the American public believes that we should maintain the same levels of support to Ukraine.

1 (40m 57s):
Some 26% believe that we should reduce our level of support. Some 23% believe we should increase our levels of support. So one of the big questions when it comes to funding for Ukraine is whether the reduced position is read as status quo or whether the increased position is read as status quo. Because generally Americans kinda like status quo. They're like, okay, fine, we'll just keep spending what we've been spending. We don't wanna see like a radical uptick in the amount of spending, but only 26% of Americans are expressing that they would actually like to reduce our levels of support. According to this u gov pulse, that is a minority proposition that Americans desperately want to reduce the commitment that has been made to Ukraine. With that said, there are swing state voters who do believe that we've given too much to Ukraine.

1 (41m 43s):
So a poll from the UK Telegraph, this is from January, early January, finds that in for example Michigan, 32% of Americans believe that America has given too much to Ukraine. 21% say too little 29% say the right amount. 18% say they do not know. Okay, bottom line though is the hard and fast opposition to more aid to Ukraine. So long as that aid is not, you know, wildly overdramatic, the vast majority of American voters are, at least the vast plurality are still in favor of continued AIDS Ukraine. They don't want to just cut off Ukraine at the knees right now, which is why it is very strange that Republicans continue to not negotiate over the situation in Ukraine.

1 (42m 24s):
Now the Democrats have failed here signaling to convince the American public that they actually hold the middle ground. The question on Ukraine is who holds the middle ground? The middle ground on Ukraine is the one the Americans want. Most Americans want to provide enough aid to Ukraine to help them withstand the Russian barrage, but not enough aid that it is a serious cost to the United States or we don't wanna shore up their bureaucracy or anything like that. Which is why the Republican Backbenchers who are now proposing an alternative aid to Ukraine bill, which presumably is pretty popular with the American people. That is a Ukraine aid bill that's being proposed by actually a bipartisan coalition including representatives Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania and Jared Golden of Maine and Don Bacon of Nebraska. It's called the Defending Borders Defending Democracies Act.

1 (43m 7s):
It includes border control measures, including that migrants coming over the southern border have to remain in Mexico, which would be the biggest single policy prescription that was reversed by Joe Biden. So that in and of itself would be a huge win remain in Mexico. Being enshrined in law would be a major win for the United States. If this bill were to pass the House and the Senate and the bill includes $47 billion for Ukraine priorities, that is down $13 billion from the proposal approved by the Senate. The House lawmakers excluded the Senate's $7.8 billion in government budgetary aid to Kyiv saying Why are we paying their government expenditures? We just wanna pay for the weapon re that they can stop the Russians from invading. The bill would also fund US military operations in the Red Sea. It would spend $3 billion on helping America build more submarines and it would spend $4 billion refilling Israel's stocks of air defense interceptors.

1 (43m 53s):
Which makes sense because if you wanna stop Iran from, for example, firing a missile at Israel, Israel needs that aid presumably. So that bill is being proposed by a bipartisan coalition. The House Speaker Johnson has been unable to bring forward anything and herein lies the unworkability of the Republican House snatching defeat from the jaws of obvious victory. Again there there are a thousand ways Republicans can win this particular PR battle and they seem to be ignoring all of them because again, the House speaker is dependent on a single vote. The house majority is down to low single digits. And that means that if Speaker Johnson does something to cross like four Republicans, he loses his speakership. Now maybe at this point he should just say, okay, fine, well, but that's the job.

1 (44m 35s):
The job is I pass bills that I think are going to help the Republican party win, say the next congressional election and help Donald Trump win the presidency. Because let's be real about this, Joe Biden is now running against Congress. That is what he's doing. And this is what, for example, yesterday here was Joe Biden saying that the consequences of an action in Ukraine are dire. That's a hard case to make if Republicans were passing say a $47 billion aid package that includes serious border provisions as opposed to passing nothing. He's counting on Republican inaction to help carry him over the finish line. Again, this is the only place where he can even attempt to grab what he believes to be a moderate middle position is on Ukraine. And that's only being made possible because Republicans have not made clear exactly what the hell they want.

1 (45m 14s):
They're completely divided. Here is Joe Biden,

10 (45m 18s):
We got a lot of work to do. We gotta figure out how we're gonna keep funding the government, which is an important problem, an important solution we need to find. And I think we can do that. And and Ukraine, I think the need is urgent. I hope we get to speak to that a little bit. And I think the consequence of inaction every day in Ukraine are dire.

1 (45m 41s):
And bottom line here is that at some point the Republican leadership is going to have to stand up for the majority of its actual constituents and take positions that may alienate the more radical parts of the base. The pe, again, even inside the Republican party, it is a minority proposition. It still is to completely cut off aid to Ukraine. That is still not a just by polling data that is not a majority position inside even the Republican party. And if Russia were to overrun Kyiv, it would look even worse for Republicans as Joe Biden found out when he left the Taliban overrun Kabul. So are Republicans going to allow, by again, whoever acts not crazy wins, whoever seizes the middle ground in this election cycle wins. That is presumably why Republicans are also discussing the possibility of averting a government shutdown.

1 (46m 25s):
The Speaker Johnson, he said that he's optimistic that we would avert a government shutdown this weekend. And this is In fact, the correct political position. I know that there are a lot of people who like government shutdowns because they believe they achieve something. I'm only in favor of a shutdown if you get a win out of it. But it turns out that this shutdown is not likely to achieve anything like the substantive win you need in order to offset the PR catastrophe. That would be Joe Biden running against a Congress that is completely dysfunctional. Here was Johnson yesterday.

11 (46m 54s):
The other big priority for our country, of course is the funding of our government. And we have been working in good faith around the clock every single day for months and, and weeks and over the last several days, quite literally around the clock to get that job done. We're very optimistic. I I hope that the other leaders came out here and told you the same. We believe that we can get to agreement on these issues and prevent a government shutdown and that's our first responsibility.

1 (47m 19s):
Okay, again, it looks as though Johnson will avert the, the problem when it comes to the government shutdown. 'cause again, why hand Democrats a political victory for minimal gain. But when it comes to Ukraine, again, that's where Biden is going. Biden's gonna run on that. Republicans have the advantage right now on the border. They have the advantage on Middle Eastern policy. They could also have the advantage on Ukraine if they would simply articulate a policy that makes any sort of sense. But again, it's too fragmentary in the house and Biden's own vagueness on policy and on what he actually seeks there is, is not going to, is not going to make up for Republican failures when it comes to even passing a thing. Like figure out what you want and pass the thing in the house. That's what the house is for. Just do that and just take another example.

1 (47m 59s):
The House had proposed the passage of an Israel aid. Only Bill and Joe Biden threatened to veto it. Well, why not make him veto it? Why not make the senators vote on it? The Republicans in the house still have not passed that out of committee. It was rejected for sort of the, the giant voice vote that happens where by by popular consent, you're just allowed to push the bill forward. Doesn't mean Republicans can't do it, they can. A little bit of smart politics here would go a long way because again, Joe Biden is incredibly vulnerable. Okay, in just one second, we're gonna get to the Republican side of the aisle. What it means that Donald Trump was able to win almost 70% of the vote in Michigan primary against Nikki Haley.

Daily Wire (48m 34s):
If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

1 (48m 45s):
We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Pure Talk (48m 47s):
First, Pure Talk believes in American values and that free should mean, you know, like free. So when you switch to Pure Talk today, you'll Get a FREE Samsung five G smartphone. There's no foreign line requirement, no activation fee, just a free Samsung that's built to last with a rugged screen, quick charging. Buttery and top tier data security qualifying plans start just 35 bucks a month for unlimited talk text, 15 gigs of data and a mobile hotspot. Pure Talk gives you phenomenal coverage on America's most dependable 5G network. It's the same coverage you know and love, but for half the price of the other guys, the average family saves almost a thousand dollars a year. So I challenge you to choose a company that actually doesn't hate your guts and shares your values. Let Pure talk's expert US customer service team help you make the switch today. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro to claim your eligibility for your free brand new Samsung five G smartphone, and start saving on wireless today. Again, go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro to switch to my cell phone company. I've been using 'em for years. They're fantastic. You'll love them as well. But at Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro and claim your eligibility on that free brand new Samsung five G smartphone. Start saving.