0 (0s):
Burning Man gets hit by Biblical flooding and we examine the cultural fallout. the polls get uglier for Joe Biden and Elon. Musk goes up against the Anti Defamation League. I'm Bench Shapiro This is the Bench Bureau show.

ExpressVPN (15s):
The Bench Bureau Show, sponsored by Express VPN protect our online Privacy today at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (19s):
So it's rare to see actual Biblical level events taking place in, you know, normal everyday life, but that is exactly apparently what is happening over at Burning Man. Now, I've ignored Burning Man successfully for several decades at this point because frankly it seemed like a bunch of weirdos out in the desert being weird with each other, and that's pretty much what it is. Apparently for those who haven't been following. Burning Man was founded back in 1986. This is according to the richest.com, when a small group of friends gathered to burn a nine foot tall statue on the beach in San Francisco. So as you might imagine, you know, weird people each year, more and more people attended the bonfire and then they actually moved it over to the Nevada desert. And so now it's held in BlackRock City, a temporary community erected by the thousands of attendees who construct the gatherings infrastructure using, using nothing but their own tools and equipment.

0 (1m 4s):
Nothing apparel is sold at Burning Man. This is one of the sort of communistic properties of it. Instead, they, they sell like coffee and water and everything else they barter or gift. So first of all, you have to ask why they're selling the coffee or water, and the answer is because you can't provide supply unless there is actual monetary demand. It turns out capitalism is great at getting things from place A to place B for an affordable price, and communism sucks at pretty much everything for many attendees known as burners. The event is about providing a space for countercultural expression as we're going to examine, however, one of the weird elements of the United States, the counterculture is no longer a counterculture. It's just the culture in the counterculture. In the 1960s, the weirdos from the 1980s who were gathering on beaches and building giant Burning men and all the rest of this, those people who we all used to consider strange.

0 (1m 49s):
Now, if you say that they are weirdos who are participating in weird pagan behavior, you are considered strange. You are considered part of the problem. You are intolerant. The counterculture is no longer the counterculture. It is in fact just the culture, which is why, for example, you see so many rich and famous people now going to Burning man, it used to be that If, you are a rich, famous person. You took yourself seriously enough that you didn't show up in the middle of the desert with nothing but a hammer and then expect to basically just go to the orgy doma all day. It used to be that the serious people in our culture were, you know, actual serious people. In our culture, they go way back to the age of the tycoons. When you were looking at John Rockefeller and you were looking at Vanderbilt, these were people who were at least pretty serious about their own lives.

0 (2m 31s):
But the reality is the counterculture has now become the culture, and the way that you win cultural cachet is by participating in a pagan set of values that actually is in complete contradistinction to the actual values you live out is a point that that Charles Murray made in his great book Coming Apart, which is that all of the tech billionaires who show up at Burning Man and then proclaim they have allegiance to these sorts of principles, actually in their own lives, reject these sorts of principles. It's just everybody else who picks up the principles, and then it becomes the culture in which they swim. And it's really, really bad. It's true whether you're talking about sort of paganism versions of communism that you're seeing at Burning Man, or whether you're talking about single motherhood, which is practiced by nearly no one in the Tech Bay area, but given the moral green light by everyone in the Tech Bay area, right?

0 (3m 13s):
There is something weird about the fact that these weird hippies, Burning crap on the beach suddenly turned into billionaires arriving entourage in toads to participate in building a garbage city in the middle of nowhere and then having sex with randos, which is effectively what Burning man is according to the richest.com. In recent years, many longtime burners have resented how the festival's growing popularity has changed the experience. They say it on Reddit post about the new class of burner consisting of celebrities, internet influencers, billionaires like Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg. It is true by the way that, again, unlike in the past when everyone who was poor aspired to be rich, and what that meant is that If, you are poor. You're aspired to also imitate the lifestyles of the rich and famous, which meant that if you go back to the, the photos of the Great Depression, people are standing in line for their tickets for their food, and they're dressed in suits.

0 (4m 1s):
Now you have the richest people in our society who are attempting to dress like homeless people to prove to everybody else while they're earning billions of dollars, that they actually despise the billions of dollars they're earning. A culture that hates itself cannot long survive. By the way, what you see in terms of the actual stats from Burning Man is that in 2006, 14% of surveyed burners listed their personal income as a hundred thousand dollars or more. By 2016, that number had almost doubled to 28%. The surveyors added a $300,000 plus personal income category, and that now represented 3.4% of all the people who are showing up at Burning Man. And by the way, they're cheating. So it used to be that if you showed up at Burning man, you basically showed up with like a bunch of plywood and a hammer, and now If, you are a rich person.

0 (4m 42s):
You show up at a turnkey camp according to Mashable, these offer luxury amenities, cleaning staff and chefs, while reportedly wrecking havoc on the environment by chartered flights to get there. So the entire thing was supposed to be this hippie gathering where you bring what you have and you give what you want and you receive from others who are generous. And now it's turned into a bunch of rich people who want to pretend that this is what they are while actively just paying people to set up basically glamping in the desert, which is amazing. It is totally amazing. In 2019, Burning Man's c e o, Marian Goodell wrote, she was stunned by the growing commodification and exploitation of BlackRock City and Burning man culture. So on the one hand you can say capitalism always wins, like no matter what, everything's ends up commodified because human beings are driven toward doing less work and being able to compensate people for the work that they are doing.

0 (5m 30s):
That capitalism always, what the other way to view this is that again, you have an entire elite strata of our society that hates itself and that is constantly seeking to signal to everybody else how much it hates itself. By doing things like going to Burning, man, they're not seeking to exemplify the behavior that everybody else should engage in. And if they do, they believe that behavior should apparently be this hippie ass garbage, and we should all basically just laugh and, and giggle along with them as they go to the the pleasure dome that has been set up in full Sodom and Gamara style. According to Burning man co Marion Goodall, she said, whether it's commercial photo shoots, product placements, or Instagram posts, thanking friends for a useful item. Attendees including fashion models and social media influencers are wearing and tagging brands in their playa photos. This means they're using BlackRock City to increase their popularity, to appeal to customers and to sell more stuff.

0 (6m 13s):
BlackRock City requires significant investments of time, energy, and resourcefulness. She said part of what makes Burning Man unique and powerful is that everyone has to work to be there. So I, I do love again, the fact that all of these rich, famous people are showing up and doing like Instagram photos for Popeye's, right? DJ Diplo descended into Burning Man in 2019 on a Popeye's branded plane and came out with two plastic bags filled with dozens of chicken sandwiches, and then he remarked on social media, Wendy's your move. Some celebrities are different, right? These would be like Susan Serrano, who famously drank the ashes of psychologist and L S D advocate Timothy Leary when she showed up in 2015, which I'm by the way, gross unsanitary don't drink other people's ashes, by the way.

0 (6m 55s):
It's a great way to get your ass kicked. Terrible, terrible way to go. But again, the idea here is that the elites mirror the worst morality that they don't actually practice in their real wives. We'll get into more of this in just one second.

Black Rifle Coffee Company (7m 6s):
First, maybe the only thing keeping me alive at this point, not the ashes of Timothy Leary, it is Black Rifle Coffee. Black Rifle Coffee is what I need every single morning. My kids get me up at like 6:00 AM as after my baby has kept me up until later. And despite all the stresses of the day, I have to get up, well, it is time for my black Rifle Coffee Black Rifle's coffee subscription gives you nothing but the best. It's a Coffee of the Month Club where you get premium roast from the Best Farms worldwide. Each month you'll get new exotic roast shipped to your door, each with unique origin and killer bag designed with matching sticker September's premium roast is called the Space Bear, with notes of plummet sugar cane and citrus topped off with a fruity aroma. Stop running outta coffee. Sign up for a coffee club subscription to have black Rifle Coffee delivered straight to your door on a Schedule Coffee Club subscribers receive their high quality coffee at lower prices with free shipping, plus they get early access to exclusive deals and prices. Black Rifle Coffee is a veteran founded coffee company operated by principled men and women who honor those who protect and defend and support our country with every purchase you make. They give back. Go to black Rifle Coffee dot com, use promo code Shapiro, check out for 10% off your order. That's black Rifle Coffee dot com. Use promo code Shapiro for 10% off black Rifle Coffee is America's coffee.

0 (8m 8s):
Okay, so just to fill out what Burning man is before we explain what God did to it apparently, and I I I get to, I get to say that because the left does this all the time, right? The the left acts as though when a hurricane hits Florida, it's because of the great sin that we have all committed in driving cars and, you know, running our air conditioners. So I also get to make a joke about how if a bunch of morons decide that they're going to jet set into the desert in the middle of nowhere, where it's 115 degrees to screw each other, and then there's a giant rainstorm Biblical style that floods them and no one bothered to bring enough wood to build an arc. Sorry, I get to joke about you guys, your own fault. Okay? So here are the principles that that's what kind of happened. Here are the principles of a Burning man. They're written in 2004 by co-founder Larry Harvey. This is a religion.

0 (8m 48s):
It's a religion, and it just goes to show you that in an era where actual religion declines, traditional Judeo-Christian religion declines other forms of religion supplant it, whether that is political polarization and following of the great leader, or whether it's this sort of pagan hippie crap that you're seeing over at Burning. Man, radical inclusion is one of the principles anyone may be part of Burning Man, we welcome and respect the stranger. No prerequisites exist for participation in our community. So first of all, not true. And if you show up and you're a Bible thumper, I guarantee it, you're not gonna be welcome over at Burning Man, where they have a giant dome where no one has showered, but they're all having sex with one another. That is an actual, I keep mentioning, mentioning this because this obviously is the most famous part of Burning Man, is the orgy dome, which according to Cosmopolitan is, is visited by 5,000 people every year where you just show up with a bunch of randos and, and then you screw them.

0 (9m 40s):
And this is the, this is the height of human experience apparently. So radical inclusion apparently would not really tolerate anybody who has, you know, like baseline moral standards in a traditional way. Gifting Burning man is devoted to acts of gift giving. The value of a gift is unconditional. Gifting does not contemplate a return or an exchange for something of equal value. So first of all, again, back to the radical inclusion point, if you just include everybody who is a leach and they're living off gifts with no expectation of any sort of return, it's not going to work. Because again, this stuff doesn't exist at scale. The actual real rule of Burning, man, I would assume is that if somebody gives you something, you give them something in return, which is what we used to call trade, right?

0 (10m 21s):
We used to call that thing capitalism. But instead we're gonna pretend that when I give you something and you give me something, and the real reason we're doing it is because of course, if I just take something from you and, and I never give you anything, no one will ever give something to me again. We're gonna pretend that that's communism. Now, decommodification, in order to preserve the spirit of gifting, our community seeks to create social environments that are unmediated by commercial sponsorships, transactions, or advertising. Oops. Well that didn't work. It turns out that people saw a giant group of people there and, and it, it is now kinda, it's old fashioned cool Burning, man. I'm in a group chat with a bunch of folks who are kind of like tail end of millennial age, and they're like, yeah, I remember when this used to be the cool thing. And now it's a bunch of people who are 42 years old who are showing up.

0 (11m 2s):
The average age Burning man who's been rising in recent years, used to be the thing for, you know, dumbass 21 year olds to do. And now it's the thing for people trying to recapture the feeling of being a dumbass 21 year old, but they're actually 42 divorced and have a kid. And that that is what Burning man has become. Radical self-reliance. Burning man encourages the individual to discover exercise and rely on their inner resources. Well, we saw how that went. We'll get to that momentarily. How they went when they relied on their inner resources to, you know, be stuck in the mud for days at a time, complaining 'cause they were located, you know, a few miles away from a freeway. Radical self-expression, radical self-expression arises from the unique gifts of the individual. No one other than the individual or a collaborating group can determine its content. It is offered as a gift to others in this spirit.

0 (11m 43s):
The givers should respect the rights and liberties of the recipient. Well, isn't that, isn't that nice radical self-expression? Now what I like is the proviso there. The proviso there is that your radical self-expression makes no demands on others. It makes no demands on others. Well, yeah, except for the fact that radical self-expression as a core value system requires the acceptance, approval, and tolerance of others clearly. So there are limits to radical self-expression, communal effort. Our community values creative cooperation and collaboration. We strive to produce, promote and protect social networks, public spaces, works of art and methods of communication that support such interaction. Have you seen all the amazing works of art that have come outta Burning? Man, you know, I mean other than the STDs, we value civil society, the civic responsibility community members who organize events to assume responsibility for public welfare and endeavors to communicate civic responsibility to participants.

0 (12m 31s):
They also must assume responsibility for conducting events in accordance with local, state and federal laws. Oh, so there is legal liability that attaches also leaving no traces. So it turns out this one they just don't do. I say our community respects the environment We are committed to leaving no physical traces of our activities. Wherever we gather, we clean up after ourselves and it's everyone ever possible to leave such places in a better state than when we found them. Which of course is wildly untrue. It turns out that Burning man has had a bad history over the past few years of just leaving garbage strewn along the highways as people careen outta there as fast as possible. This of course is no shock. You go back to the Occupy Wall Street days, we had all the socialist lefties who were camping out in the parks in New York City and it was just a wilderness of criminality, drug abuse and trash.

0 (13m 13s):
And then you went to the Tea party, right? All these people who supposedly hate the environment, everybody at the Tea party picked up after themselves. No one at Occupy picked up after themselves. Because again, it turns out that only respect for the communal values that you actually share would require you to do this thing. And any community founded on radical self-expression, you're gonna get a lot of freeloaders and people who free ride participation. These are the final two principles, right? Not 10 commandments, not like thou shall not kill thou, shall not kidnap, thou shall not commit sexual sins that shall not commit adultery, right? None of those things, right? Tho those, none, none of that, none of that matters, right? The, the things that actually matter here are things like participation. Our community is committed to a radically participatory ethic. We believe that transformative change, whether in the individual or in society, can occur only through the medium of deeply personal participation.

0 (13m 56s):
We achieve being through doing. Everyone is invited to work. Everyone is invited to play. Oh, and finally, immediacy. Immediate experience is in many ways the most important touchstone value in our culture. Which of course is something that has been completely done away with. Because if you look at Burning man, it's just a bunch of selfies, just an endless series of selfies, forever stamping on the human face forever. So in just a second we will, we'll talk about what God wrought. 'cause it turns out it didn't end well this year. It was like the Fyre Festival as that momentarily.

Genucel (14m 25s):
First, as you might know, I'm a big fan of our friends over at Genus Cell. I've known about Genus Cell for literally years. Like back in 2013 when I was doing a local morning show in Los Angeles. Genus Cell is an advertiser on that show. And then, you know, I stopped doing that show and my family continued to use Genucel products because they're just that good. Ella from Rockford says, I have both age agent acne spots, and the stuff's actually fading both of them. The serum is worth every penny. Ella raves about the famous dark spot corrector from genus cell. Its a cell, it's a must-have. After months of record heat and humidity, sun spots, brown spots, discoloration, even red inflamed patches, they all disappear in front of your very eyes. It's really useful down here in Florida where we've got really hot sun this summer. So genus cell products, they can really, really help. This is why my mom, my wife, I use them as well. Here's the Genucel amazing guarantee. You'll see results on day one or you get your money back so you got nothing to lose. Take advantage of gen's most popular package, which now includes the dark spot corrector plus the classic Genucel bags in puffiness treatment and immediate effects, all at about 70% off. So you can try the best skincare in the world for yourself, completely risk free. It is simple. Go to Genucel dot com slash Shapiro. Start looking years, even decades younger tomorrow. Say goodbye to dark and liver spots. Those bags and puffiness under the eyes crow's feet@genusell.com slash Shapiro. You've got nothing to lose. It's a great product. Go to genu sell.com/ Shapiro GN u c.com/ Shapiro.

0 (15m 37s):
Okay, so once again, you have an ethos that is based on radical individualism and in which people aren't expected to do anything for anybody else. But at the same time, you're expected to do everything for everybody else. That contrast the 10 commandments of Burning Man with, you know, the actual 10 Commandments. Things like respect thy father and mother. Remember the Sabbath and keep it holy. Don't commit murder, don't commit adultery. Don't commit idolatry. Don't commit kid, like one of these sets of rules has built a civilization that has lasted and been successful for literally thousands of years. The other set of rules lasted a heavy rainstorm. So maybe the, maybe the story of of Noah's Ark is that maybe the rain wasn't all that heavy.

0 (16m 20s):
Here's the radical, here's the radical heretical view today. The rain wasn't all that heavy. It's just the society was not all that durable. Maybe that's really what we are finding out right now. So here's what happened over at Burning Man. According to the ap, an unusual late summer storm turned a week-long counterculture fest into a sloppy mess with tens of thousands of partygoers stuck in foot deep mud with no working toilets in the northern Nevada desert. Some Burning man Reveler said Sunday, their spirits remain unbroken. Unfortunately, their toilets do remain broken and so they're just sitting there. We're sitting there in their own poop screwing each other. Sound sounds like the most, the height of human experience. Somebody did die. But apparently that that's happened before. Like there was a guy a few years ago who burned himself to death 'cause he threw himself onto the Burning man or something.

0 (17m 1s):
So in any case, it wasn't because of the bad weather. So organizers closed the festival to vehicles after one death was reported of officials provided no details of the fatality of the guy, didn't drown or anything. The annual gathering in the BlackRock Desert about 110 miles north of Reno, attracts nearly 80,000 artists, musicians and activists for a mix of wilderness camping and avant-garde performances. Disruptions are part of the festival's. Recent history organizers had to temporarily close entrances in 2018 due to dust storms. The event was twice canceled altogether during the pandemic. I love this. More than half an inch of rain fell at the festival site on Friday disrupting this year's fe. Wait, half an inch, half wait, not half a foot, not, not like half a meter, half an inch.

0 (17m 43s):
This much rain fell this much right here and oops, everything fell apart. More than half inch of rain, possibly closer to one inch fell this weekend in parts of northwest Nevada. That includes the area where the Burning Man Festival was being held. Road closures came just before a large wooden effigy was supposed to have been burned on Saturday night. So basically, this is the story of Elijah, right? Elijah Star's like, okay guys, take your giant wooden sacrifice and see if it will burn sacrifices. God, will you touch it? Nope, rain. So yeah, good times. President Joe Biden told reporters in Delaware, he's aware of the situation at Burning. Man, the White House is in touch with local officials. Again, the thing I'm making fun of here is that the people who are most interested in this, it has become a glitz and glamor festival.

0 (18m 29s):
This is the part that's truly fascinating. You can make fun of hippies in the desert. That's easy, Pickens. But when those hippies involve like the most famous people in our society and the, and these most famous people in our society are suggesting that there is something to this value system that is worth noting, that is something worth noting that a, a value system that that thinks that orgy domes and not showering and building crap in the desert, that you just then leave there. That this is somehow a form of higher living. And in the absence of God paganism rules, it is not that there is no God. It's that many god's rule. And those gods typically involve self worship, which is really where, where things currently stand. Good news, Diplo was there again, I don't know if he had his Popeye's plane until apparently not.

0 (19m 12s):
Chris Rock was also there and they escaped. They escaped from BlackRock as a fan offered Chris Rock and I a ride out of the burn after walking six miles through the mud. All Chris could think about was an effing cold brew.

3 (19m 30s):
I was just,

0 (19m 34s):
Wow, that is, that is some heavy stuff there. The other part of this that's hilarious is that obviously it wasn't Biblical flooding. Obviously, thank God tens of thousands of people did not die. And yet every person who's there, this is why I say the idolatry is actually just idolatry of the self. Everybody there is treating this as though they escaped the beaches at Normandy or something like this is what they're treating it like. It's, it's truly an amazing, amazing thing. Like for example, Neil Catel, who you'll remember as a supposedly serious legal analyst, he put up a picture of himself talking about the incredibly harrowing journey out of the Burning Man Festival.

0 (20m 16s):
So apparently people said that they could walk about five miles from the festival site to the nearest town of Gerlach or shuttle buses would take them to Reno. First of all, can I just point out that five miles is not a lot of territory. It's a flat desert. Take a little water and go like five miles. The the whining, my goodness, he said quote, it was an incredibly harrowing six mile hike at midnight through heavy and slippery mud. But I got safely out of Burning man, never been before. And it was fantastic with brilliant art and fabulous music except for the ending. Ah, you know, these are our most serious people. That guy was the acting solicitor general under Barack Obama. That the acting solicitor gen, the guy who they have on M Ss N B C every day talking about the legal threats to Donald Trump and how the rule of law must be upheld, was that Burning man whining about how to walk five miles in mud because he put himself there because they have an orgy do or something.

0 (21m 7s):
How old is Neil Koy, by the way? Neil? Neil Koy is 53 years old to put it politely. Grow the up, dude. Wow. Okay, we'll get to more on this insanity in just one second because I find this endlessly fascinating. I know about you, but tough. It's my show. We'll get to one second.

Blinds.com (21m 26s):
First, when you buy a house or an apartment, you really should look at the way that the light streams in through the windows. It's like a big aspect of your mood. Seriously, like how the light comes into your house? Well, that means you might have to look at the window. Coverings blinds.com can make the magic happen for you the way they have for my family. blinds.com is the number one online retailer of custom window coverings. With over 40,005 star reviews, you can measure and install it yourself or have blinds.com take care of it with local professionals. There's no showroom, no retail markets, no matter how many you order, installation is just one low cost. If you don't have an eye for design blinds.com, experts are always available to help choose the s style and color right for you. Everything they sell is covered by the perfect fit and 100% satisfaction guarantee with hundreds of styles and colors to choose from. blinds.com is sure to have the perfect treatments for your windows. Thanks to blinds dot com's Labor Day sale, you'll be able to get an amazing deal on amazing blinds for your home. Get up to 50% off plus doorbusters at blinds dot com's Labor Day Sale. That's their biggest sale ever. Save up to 50% right now@blinds.com. When you check out online, don't forget to tell them you heard about blinds.com from The Ben Shapiro Show rules and restrictions may apply. Go check them out right now. They make it super easy. They help you through the entire process. Go check them out right now, blinds.com and save up to 50% and let them know that you heard about them here on The Ben Shapiro Show.

0 (22m 34s):
Okay, so the pictures that have emerged from Burning man are truly horrifying. People standing in mud, people are worried about trench foot because they have to walk around in the mud over there. Again, I I I'm gonna point out that people who have attended include not only Elon Musk, but Jeff Bezos and Will Smith. This is the part that's totally crazy to me. We need a better class of elite. We do. You wonder why people don't trust the elite? You wonder why there's a giant cultural gap between say, the left coast and the East coast and everybody in the middle of the country because people who still go to church look at this stuff and they're like, so ya morons went out in the middle of the desert to worship, to worship your pagan selves and then got stuck in the mud rough ride for you really, really, truly feel bad. But this is the point.

0 (23m 15s):
The cultural arbiters are not on the side of the so-called culture. They're on the side of the counterculture. And this is the important point. Burning man's values, or its pseudo values represent the actual prevailing mindset for many of the powerful in our society. When people try to boil down the Trump phenomenon to, well, the guy really liked tariffs or Donald trump, he wanted to build a wall on the border or Donald Trump. It's really about subsidies to industrial towns in Ohio. That's not what Donald Trump is about. What Donald Trump is about is about a cultural system that used to be called the traditional culture of the United States. He is not personally representative of that, but that's what the Trump movement represents. And those people have been dispossessed of the Judeo-Christian architecture that used to undergird the United States of America.

0 (23m 58s):
And they've been dispossessed by a bunch of pagan morons who believe that the actual value system is radical self-expression and individualism. Now, this does unite some of the great capitalists of our era because there are many of the great capitalists of our era. It used to be that everyone sort of understood, particularly the great capitalists that undergirding capitalism was a Judeo-Christian value system. you know, who actually understood this fairly well, Adam Smith, that his theory of moral sentiments came before his wealth of nations. But the the great early tycoons, these were people who went to church on a regular basis. These were people who actually, who actually were, were interested in what happened around them, right? Who took their, their responsibilities as human beings.

0 (24m 43s):
Seriously, I I, I mentioned John d Rockefeller, but, but John d Rockefeller is a great example. This is a guy who went to a church and he sat in the pews next to people who were a fraction of his wealth. What used to unify the country was a belief system that the elites held in common with the common man. It was the same belief system overall. The, the, it was the radicals who were proclaiming the, the creed of, of radical self-expression. But now it's not the radicals. Now it's the most powerful people in the society who have basically decided the reason they became powerful is because they followed their star. But that's not really true. Again, if you look at the people who are most successful in our society, they didn't follow their star to the tune of, I will ignore basic values like educating myself or living a sexually responsible lifestyle in the main right.

0 (25m 25s):
Mark Zuckerberg is a married guy with multiple kids. And that's true for most of the people who are actually high earners in American society. They're actually more likely to be married with kids than people who are not high earners in American society. But they promulgate the values of the low. And when I say the low I mean like the hippies and the commune who are Burning giant nine foot statues. And that says something. And the kickback to that is a bunch of people who are angry at the fact that they have had their value system supplanted and insulted and derided by people whose main focus seems to just be tearing things down. I mean, Burning man is actually an excellent metaphor. You build a man and then you burn him. That is that you build radical individualism represented by a giant nine foot tall idol, and then you burn it because what does humanity matter?

0 (26m 9s):
If all humanity is, is a piece of meat wandering through the universe with hedonistic impulses? It's only when human beings are connected to a higher value system, when they're connected with a divine value system of some sort, that they become worth more than a block of wood that you burn or an orgy dome, right? Disconnect human beings from a telos dis disconnect them from a, from a, a purpose, a higher purpose. And what you end up with is Burning man, right? Live in the moment, immediacy of experience, radical individual self-expression, and then half an inch of mud and you're done. You're you're done. You're toast. So, you know, there, there is something to be said here. It is amazing that the way the organizers here decided to tell people to handle this thing is to get themselves woodblock and poop buckets.

0 (26m 53s):
According to cnn.com, the first time at Masha Melva attended Burning Man, the annual ephemeral city that attracts thousands of free-spirited revelers in the Nevada desert. She overpacked I prepared for maybe three months. You recalled I read all the packing lists, all the Reddit threads, all the WhatsApp chaps preparing for Burning man. But this year when heavy rain transformed the remote venue into a muddy mess that forced attendees to shelter in place and conserve precious resources, Mount Salva wasn't as prepared. She became one of about 70,000 people stuck at the event. When BlackRock Desert received over two months worth of rain in just 24 hours, the storms turned the desert sand into sloppy slippery clay that made it impossible for drivers to exit or enter. Self-reliance is one of the event's, core principles with organizers emphasizing the participants are ultimately responsible for their own health and safety.

0 (27m 35s):
So that meant that they had to wear trash bags on their feet. It meant also that they were told to, to bring poop buckets in case the rain made the porta-potties inoperable The website recommended a five gallon utility bucket with a lid and garbage bag liners. This sound like a great civilization to you. It sounds like a great civilization to me. Here's festival attendee David Date describing the absolute carnage in the desert.

4 (27m 57s):
Well, what's been the most difficult aspect of this weather and, and being trapped there?

5 (28m 5s):
I would say the most difficult aspect, you know, fundamental to this problem we have is the concept of a wook. Someone who shows up to this event with nothing other than their rv and you know, their selfish indulgence and they offer nothing. They offer nothing to this community. They don't add anything to the city. These are the people that are fleeing the city, leaving their trash and creating a crisis from which Burning man might not survive.

0 (28m 29s):
That is a sad story. I cannot, I cannot believe the sadness. Wait, you mean that a, a city that's built on freeloading actually has freeloaders who arrive One other note here. No children are Burning man. It turns out that we are an adult. We are now a civilization that is completely focused on the adults, right? The reason that there are no kids, a Burning man, aside from the fact that it's radically inappropriate and apparently bear some risk, is the fact that if you live immediately in the moment, you're not building for the future. That's the whole point of Burning. Man is not building for the future. And there, there are times in every culture where you take off and you focus in on just the moment, right? That's, that's true in every culture. But when you build an entire value system around that, around whatever happens tomorrow is not my business around why build it intergenerationally?

0 (29m 10s):
After all, it's all ephemera. Build it in the desert. It'll be gone tomorrow. Unless that's connected with a higher value system, it means nothing. It means nothing. It actually is nihilistic. So we celebrate a holiday in Judaism that's coming up in the, in the very near future called Ko. In Kote, you basically do kind of Burning man. What you do is you build a Hutt outside your house and you actually are supposed to live in it for seven or eight days. The purpose of it is to remind you that you are at the mercy of God, right? You're supposed to actually, you know, build the Hutt such that you can see the stars. And so it's open to the rain, the, the, but the, the whole purpose of it is to remind you that you are a physical creature, but that there is something more spiritual to you, right? That it's not, that it actually, that's not supposed to represent the entirety of human experience.

0 (29m 53s):
It's one of the best holidays because the idea is that when you decorate all the physical surroundings around you, that's not the essential you. But what is the essential you? It's unity with God, right? The essential you is the divine you. That's the part that matters. Disconnect that. And all you end up with is a bunch of morons rolling around in the mud and then being mad at each other when they have to poop in a bucket. Not quite the same thing.

ZipRecruiter (30m 12s):
Okay, in just one second, we're gonna get to the latest polls on Joe Biden. There's a reason that Donald Trump continues to lead the Republican primary. It's not just because he's a magnetic personality, it's also because Joe Biden is running really, really weak. We'll get to that in just one second. First, whether we love it or whether we hate it, AI is here to stay. AI is expected to create over 100 million new jobs globally. Some jobs include data scientists, product designers, robotics, engineers, surprisingly tax managers with AI skills. Well, ZipRecruiter is the best way to use AI to help you find people with all kinds of skills. So for example, Matt Kemp, he's our director of post-production, and Matt is stellar at his job. I mean he makes sure this show looks great. There's only one problem with Matt because he's so dedicated to his job. He's sometimes sending emails at like two or three o'clock in the morning. I don't know. Why is the expectation that I'm going to be awake at two or three o'clock in the morning to reply? That expectation is not reality. My no, the answer is no. But let's say that you wanted to replace Matt with somebody who understood what working hours are. Well then what you would do is you would head on over to ZipRecruiter four out of five employers who post on ZipRecruiter, get a quality candidate within day one. See for yourself. Go to this exclusive web address to Try ZipRecruiter for FREE at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Again, that is ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. ZipRecruiter is indeed the smartest way to hire ZipRecruiter dot com slash D A I L Y W I R e and try them out for free.

5 (31m 27s):
Also, we have a huge offer coming up for all DailyWire members. Early access to a first look at the highly anticipated 10 part original series from Candace Owens Convicting A Murderer. Early access to the series is September 7th. It's only available over your DailyWire Plus Get Ready. Candace is about to blow apart the Stephen Avery misrepresentation on the popular Netflix series Making a Murderer. It's great series Hollywood portrayed Stephen Avery As an innocent victim of corrupt law enforcement, Candace blew that narrative apart. She exposes Hollywood and the media for carefully crafting stories to elicit a particular reaction and to manipulate you.

0 (32m 0s):
We've seen it all the time, but this time Candace is debunking it. Check out convicting a murderer. She'll uncover a shocking amount of detail in the Stephen Avery case that paints quite a different picture. Go check them out right now. Here is the season teaser coming

6 (32m 13s):
Up on Convicting a Murderer.

7 (32m 15s):
Part of me don't wanna believe that he did this. The

8 (32m 17s):
Blood that was on that back area was indicative of the head

9 (32m 20s):
Wound. My brother likes to push a lot of people around. I don't give a

10 (32m 24s):
About anything. I ain't gotta listen to nobody.

6 (32m 27s):
How were these filmmakers able to convince so many people and the man like Steven Avery is innocent?

11 (32m 33s):
How many times did he stab her

12 (32m 36s):
Once

11 (32m 37s):
And show me where? Right

13 (32m 39s):
Here they gave him power. They're

14 (32m 41s):
Trying to get everything on me that

13 (32m 43s):
They did. It's not good for and Avery to have power.

14 (32m 46s):
I told you all along, keep your fucking mouth shot.

15 (32m 48s):
That can hurt Steven. I'm not gonna lie for him no more. I can't do it.

6 (32m 52s):
Watch Convicting A Murderer. A new 10 part series on DailyWire Plus

0 (32m 58s):
Again, early access to watch Convicting A Murder is available to DailyWire plus members September 7th. It's free to watch for members. There is no reason to miss it. The official premiere for Convicting a Murder takes place on X, formerly known as Twitter. On September 8th, 9:00 PM Eastern Candace will be live chatting with special guests at the X Event at 5:00 PM Make sure you head on over to the X space to join the conversation. The full series is available only at DailyWire plus. Head on over to DailyWire dot com slash subscribe to join us. Use Code Truth for 25% off your DailyWire Plus subscription. Everyone is gonna be talking about this new Candace series. Don't miss out subscribe today. Okay. Meanwhile, Donald Trump continues to be an incredibly viable candidate in the Republican primaries. Right now, the real clear politics, polling average puts him up 39 points over the rest of the field.

0 (33m 38s):
The latest Wall Street Journal poll has Donald Trump all the way up in the Republican primaries at 59%. Ron DeSantis running a distant distant second at 13, followed by Nikki Haley, who's seen a bit of a bump at eight, followed by the vague at five, which is probably how the field is, is truly stacked right now. Trump, of course, way the hell out in front. One of the reasons for that is the main argument against Trump has been an electability argument. That is the main argument because Republican voters, they, they really like Trump. They like a lot of what he did. They're willing to overlook or maybe embrace a lot of the foibles and the crazy tweets and all that kind of stuff. Certainly there's a lot of warmth inside the Republican party for Trump. But the only counterargument would be, yeah, but also he, he lost to Biden in 2020 and we'll probably lose again. The problem is when the polls show that Joe Biden is absolutely weak, that makes Trump look a lot more durable inside the Republican primaries.

0 (34m 24s):
So it's like, well, I mean I get both of the things I want at once. The guy who I really like on a personal level. And also he can probably be Biden, which is what the Republican polls are showing right now inside the Republican primaries. Now I have my doubts because I think that a lot of the polls that we're seeing right now are overestimating, for example, minority support for Donald Trump underestimating that support for Joe Biden. I think a lot of Democrats who right now are saying that they're wavering on Biden are gonna come home in the same way that a lot of Republicans who say they waver about Trump are gonna come home. However, it is Joe Biden's weakness that is leading to this impasse. If voters overwhelmingly think Biden is too old to run for reelection and give him low marks for handling the economy. According to the latest Wall Street Journal poll, the negative views of Biden's agent performance help explain why only 39% of voters hold a favorable view of Joe Biden.

0 (35m 6s):
In a separate question, 42% said they approve of how he's handling his job well below the 57% who disapprove and right now in a potential rematch or Trump versus Biden rematch, each of them has 46% head-to-head. The Journal survey points to a large set of challenges that Biden faces in persuading voters. He deserves reelection. It also finds a lot of weaknesses in Trump. Voters in the survey rated Trump as less honest and likable than Biden. A majority viewed Trump's actions after his 2020 election loss as an illegal effort to stop Congress from declaring Biden the proper winner. But if you look at the disapproved numbers for Joe Biden on a wide variety of issues, they are absolutely devastating when it comes to inflation. The disapproval numbers are well over 60%, same amount securing the border when it comes to dealing with China.

0 (35m 47s):
Just over 30% of voters approve nearly 60% disapprove when it comes to creating jobs. Even there, he's split at like 46, 46, and right now in terms of handling of the war in Ukraine, he's registering in at a well over 50% disapproval. Furthermore, 73% of voters say they think Trump Biden is too old to seek a second term. That's only 47% of voters who say the same of Donald Trump. Even two thirds of Democrats say that Joe Biden is too old to run Again. There's more in this poll that again, bolsters Trump and hurts Biden by an 11 point margin. More voters see Trump rather than Biden as having the record of accomplishments as president. Some 40% said Biden had a good record as president.

0 (36m 28s):
51% say that Trump had a good record as president by an eight point margin. More voters said Trump has a vision for the future by 10 points more described Trump as mentally up for the presidency. 46% said that was true of Trump. Only 36% said that of Biden. Now, what's amazing about that is that those numbers are really awful for Joe Biden, like truly, truly garbage for Joe Biden. You would think that if Joe Biden had numbers that low, his Republican opponent would be like at 50%, 52%. The problem is that Donald Trump's negatives are also super high. So basically the American public thinks that Donald Trump committed criminal acts like the, I'm not saying everyone, I'm saying that a plurality of the American public believes that Donald Trump did illegal or at least morally bad things in the aftermath of the last time's election.

0 (37m 9s):
And they also don't like him personally, but also they think that he's more competent than Biden and they like his record. Now that provides an opening to Trump if he runs on his record. But if the entire campaign is gonna be about what he did after the election last time in his criminal cases, that's going to be kind of a problem going forward into the election. This is what Tony Fabrizio says. He's a, he pulls for a super PAC that supports Trump says, if this race is about personality and temperament, Biden has an advantage. If the race is about policies and performance, Trump has the advantage. Well, let me remind you right now that virtually all races end up being about performance and temperament. Because if it were about policies and performance, Trump would've won in 2020 without a doubt. So again, these are really bad numbers for Biden and it's those bad numbers for Biden that are, that are really strengthening Donald Trump inside the Republican primaries.

0 (37m 54s):
'cause the electability argument basically goes away. Democrats cannot believe that Joe Biden is polling this low. They can't believe it because they live in an echo chamber where everybody loves Joe Biden. So here's George Stephanopoulos former lackey for Hillary Clinton being quite shocked.

16 (38m 7s):
It is kind of shocking in a way that despite all of the baggage that Donald Trump carries, he's tied with Joe Biden right now.

17 (38m 14s):
Yeah, I mean, George, when I looked at that recent poll, the Wall Street Journal, I, I said, oh, this could keep me up at night. Look, the problem is, and the biggest challenge we face as, as Democrats, I say we, because I'm a Democrat, is that young voters, young, black and Latino voters, they're not ready to come back to the party. They're not even looking at the, the so-called messaging that's being sent to them about the economy, about climate change, about student debt relief.

0 (38m 40s):
Okay? So again, even Democrats are stunned by his unpopular, but it's not all that stunning. Joe Biden is not an empathetic figure as we've been pointing out for months on this program. Joe Biden is not good at his job. I love the fact that Joe Biden is trying to steer into his age at this point, but simultaneously denying that he is lazy, which at this point in his life, he is, he spent like the last month on vacation while Lahaina was Burning down. Like what does he do for a living other than sit on the beach and then say words badly into a microphone and then run away from the press. Yesterday he was asked why he was in Rehoboth Beach. He's like, well, I I certainly wasn't on vacation. Well then, what the hell are you doing in Rahho with beach? You go there for business.

18 (39m 17s):
So by way's not here today, just for one day. I know I'm on vacation. I'm not, I have no home to go, my house way to make it secure. I have no place to go when I come to go except cure right now. Only for one day.

19 (39m 33s):
Are you homeless? Is that

20 (39m 35s):
What you're telling us? No, I'm not homeless.

18 (39m 36s):
I just have one home. I have a beautiful home.

0 (39m 40s):
Okay? So my, my favorite part of this is also, he doesn't just say it's hard to hear him, but he says he's not on vacation. He's going to Republic Beach because the, the other, he, he doesn't have other, any other place to go. Like if his house were to burn down in Le Haina or something like he has, he's just like that. Well, what a, what a victim he is. Meanwhile, he flew to Philadelphia to do a rally. By a rally. We mean, once again, he escaped death. So that you can say that for him again, EV every, every day with Joe Biden just feels like appointment in Tamara at this point. In any case, Joe Biden, he at this rally was saying, I've been doing this longer than anyone. Well, yeah, we noticed by this I hope you mean corruption 'cause that's true.

20 (40m 18s):
Someone said, you know that Biden ain't getting old, man. I tell you what, well, guess what? Guess what? I, you know, the only thing that comes today is a little bit of wisdom. I, I've

0 (40m 32s):
Been doing this well, incontinence, anybody

20 (40m 33s):
And I guess what I'm gonna continue to do with your help,

0 (40m 37s):
Well, I mean one thing that does not come along with age is speaking English. Clearly. That's a lot of mashed potatoes in mouth right there. I

20 (40m 45s):
Longer age

0 (40m 49s):
Solid stuff there from the president of the United States. One of my favorite things he says on the campaign trail is where he says, people call me middle class Joe. No one has ever called him middle class Joe. Literally no one. That has never happened. Not once. There's no one who's like that guy over there. You're running around. That's middle class Joe. you know why no one called the middle class Joe? 'cause he hasn't been middle class since he was a child. That is why middle class Joe was making $44,600 per year when he first entered the Senate at the age of 30 in inflation money. That's $326,000 a year. Middle class Joe, my ass. Here we go

20 (41m 22s):
Folks. All my time at public office, I've been referred to as middle class Joe. I guess they thought that was a, what,

0 (41m 28s):
What was

20 (41m 28s):
That? Not very complimentary. Well, guess what? That's who I am. That doesn't mean you're not sophisticated because you're middle class. It means you've worked like hell and you know what? Your family has to work like hell to be able to make it.

0 (41m 43s):
Joe Biden is a corrupt Paul. He's been a corrupt politician his entire life. He's not remotely middle class. That dude owns multimillion dollar properties. He's not middle class, but that's absurd. And he still also by the way, who like I, I'm wondering who in the country looks down on the middle class seriously, who's like looking at the middle class. The only people who look down on the middle class are people like Barack Obama and Joe Biden and the morons at Burning Man. Like those are the only people. They're the people who look at middle class American's like, ah, those, those rubes live in the lifestyle. Remember it's Barack Obama who was declaring that people voted Republican because there were bitter clingers who were clinging to God and xenophobia because they were losing their jobs. It's people like Joe Biden who looked down in the middle class. Joe Biden is there to enrich his corrupt union buddies, which has been true since literally he was elected to the Senate.

0 (42m 25s):
He has been in the union's pocket since the day he entered the Senate in Delaware Again, Ben Shreck Ander writes in his book about the Bidens, that there is a very solid basis to believe that Joe Biden won his first Senate race basically at the behest of unions that that may have illegally picketed a newspaper to prevent a, a mailer going out about him from his opposition. In any case, one of my favorite things about Joe Biden is that he equates being pro middle class with being pro the heads of major labor unions, which not the same thing. It turns out that forcibly removing a piece of people's paycheck and giving it to a bunch of union bosses then elect corrupt politicians like Joe Biden so they can enrich their, their funds is pretty amazing stuff.

0 (43m 5s):
This is presumably why the acting labor secretary right now, Julie Sue, she's out there saying that Joe Biden, he loves the middle class 'cause he loves labor. That's it. That he loves the unions. you know what I noticed? The unions represent fewer and fewer members of the middle class. That's what I noticed.

21 (43m 18s):
Can you allow what the administration's role is in these negotiations to the extent there is one at all?

22 (43m 25s):
Yes. Thank you so much. Phil I mean this president is the most pro worker, pro-union president that we have had. And that means economic policies, that center working people that are good for workers, it has created a tight labor market in which workers and unions have more power to demand change and demand what's right for workers demand their fair share at the bargaining table.

0 (43m 48s):
Okay, amazing stuff. Again, middle class Joe in the pocket of the unions. That's really what it's all about. Again, the only argument for Joe Biden at this point is that he's not Trump. Bernie Sanders just said that out loud. He's like, really? Joe Biden's old, he's bad at this job, but at least he's not Trump. So right now you have the Republican party betting on at least he's not Biden, and you have the Democratic party betting on at least he's not Trump and only one party can be right. Here's Bernie making that case.

23 (44m 11s):
We are living in an unprecedented moment in American history. Donald Trump is not only a pathological liar, has not only helped wage an insurrection if you like, to prevent President Biden from taking office. Not only is denying American democracy moving against American democracy. So I think at this moment, Bob, we have got to bring the progressive community together to say, you know what? We're gonna fight for a progressive agenda, but we cannot have four more years of Donald Trump in the White House.

0 (44m 50s):
Again. That's all they care about. And so what you have is, as Jim Garrity at National abuse, has a frozen battlefield, Republicans think that anyone can be Biden Democrats, believe anyone can be Trump. And so you're gonna end up with Trump Biden in all likelihood right now. Meanwhile, the media are attempting to do their best to ensure that Ron, DeSantis and everyone else in the Republican party remains secondary to Donald Trump they're doing so in some cases by just lying. So Rolling Stone Magazine, which is not famous for, its for its honesty. They wrote up a report suggesting that a bunch of neo-Nazis marching in Florida by a bunch I mean like 15 marching in Florida, a representative of Governor DeSantis political support, according to Rolling Stone's misleading report, they said some of the marchers individually expressed their distaste for Donald Trump saying they prefer Governor Florida, governor Ron DeSantis.

0 (45m 35s):
And, and, and supposedly they said, we're all DeSantis supporters. It's only one problem, which is, which is not true, which is not true at all. Here's the actual video that Rolling Stone was lying about.

24 (45m 45s):
We don't vote Wing. He's got all these laws against whatcha doing here. You're joking when you say DeSantis, whatcha doing here, Lord?

0 (45m 57s):
They're saying F DeSantis. Right? They're saying it sarcastically. Rolling Stone left that part out so they can make it look as though all the Nazis in Florida support DeSantis, which is a weird thing since all the Orthodox Jews in Florida support DeSantis. So, so there's that, that's all, that's all going really well. Meanwhile, over the weekend, Joe Biden stopped by Florida very briefly in the aftermath of, of a hurricane that, that actually didn't do it. Tremendous amount of damage, thank God. And the big controversy over the weekend in Florida was, why isn't Ron DeSantis getting together with Joe Biden? And the answer is, there's no reason for him to get together with Joe Biden. Joe Biden was just going to stand there and jabber about climate change. So what exactly is the purpose? There is no actual fundamental obligation for a governor of a state of either party. I don't like any of these optics. I've talked about this for years. I think it's all stupid.

0 (46m 38s):
But DeSantis actually has a job to do. He's the governor of the state. Joe Biden is coming around to stand around and look at things and wander around aimlessly and bump into walls and talk about climate change. So Governor DeSantis said on Friday, there were no plans for him to meet with Joe Biden contradicting comments that Biden had made earlier in the day, indicating that they would, the media immediately took this as a great insult to the honor of Joe Biden. I will say this, to his credit, Biden was asked about meeting DeSantis and he didn't actually take the opportunity to bash DeSantis rare moment of, a rare moment of, of not garbage behavior from our current president.

25 (47m 13s):
Are you disappointed that the governor didn't join you on your visit today and that his handling of your visit makes it seem like politics is getting in the way of your joint response to this crisis?

26 (47m 24s):
Well, no, I'm not disappointed. He may have had other reasons because, but he did help us plan this. He sat with FEMA and, and decided where we should go, where it'd be the least disruption. And I'm very pleased, the guy who we don't agree very much at all, the distinguished former governor and senior senator he came talked about to me and to you all about how incredible what an incredible job the federal government was doing. And I I I found that reassuring.

0 (47m 56s):
Yeah. Well, you know, again, rare moment of, of shocking decency there from the current president of the United States, M S N B C, however, was not going to be deterred by, by Biden's words. Instead they jumped, this is horrible. How could he not meet with, with Joe Biden? Oh my God, people will, here we go.

27 (48m 12s):
I remember being on the ground for, for Sandy, for Hurricane Sandy way back when. And you think back to the meeting that Chris Christie then had, then New Jersey governor had with President Obama, right. And the embrace, and some folks said that is the reason why then President Obama got reelected. Is this, you think one of the reasons why DeSantis is choosing not to, to meet with the president today and making it more about politics?

28 (48m 37s):
Well, I would just note I do not think that, you know, going to her going to be the president to do your presidential duty when President Obama was president was in fact the reason that he was reelected. Look, I think that Governor DeSantis his team, and by the way, he has two teams, right? He has a team in the governor's office and then he has a team on his campaign. I think that the team of the campaign is likely negatively influencing what the, the decisions that the team and the governor's office makes.

0 (49m 11s):
Okay? So yeah, the media are not gonna let that one go. Okay. Meanwhile, Elon Musk is now at war with the anti-defamation League. So let's be clear about the anti-defamation League. It is a progressive interest group that proclaims that it is speaking in the name of Jewish causes. That is, that is untrue. It is just a progressive interest group, that's all. And sometimes they cross stream with actual not horrific ideas. And a lot of the time they're targeting people on the basis of spurious nonsense or ignoring people on the basis of other spurious nonsense, because again, they're a progressive interest group. Well, Elon Musk is now in a, in a battle with the A D L and he's in a battle with them because he's saying that you guys are basically trying to slur X, formerly known as Twitter by having advertisers remove their revenue.

0 (49m 54s):
He's right about that. A lot of these progressive interest groups are very much interested in removing advertising revenue from sources where they can't control the speech. So he posted on X saying the a d l has been trying to kill this platform by falsely accusing it and me of being antisemitic. If this continues, we'll have no choice but to file a Defamation suit against, ironically, the Anti Defamation League, if they lose the Defamation suit, we will insist they drop the Anti part of their name since, obviously, now is that really going to happen? It's, it's almost impossible to win a Defamation suit against a public figure. It's like, it's really, really, really rough because you have to show actual malice, which is a nearly impossible standard. With that said, is the a d L constantly speaking up on behalf of the right causes?

0 (50m 37s):
Absolutely not. I mean they've made excuses for some of the world's worst antisemites in Congress along as their Democrats, because again, it is a progressive interest group. They posted a report suggesting that X is now filled with horrible hate. This is a way for them to work together with groups that we've discussed on the program before, like gm, in order to reduce advertising to platforms like X, basically abide by left-wing standards of speech or watcher advertising dollars disappear. That's what Elon Musk is, is sounding off about. And he happens to be correct about all of that. And it's really, really uglier, which is why it's very important that If, you are an advertiser and you are looking at platforms to advertise on. You probably should be looking at freer speech platforms like Twitter, because otherwise Twitter slash x is, is going to revert back to type and it's gonna do the same kind of crap that Facebook has done or YouTube has done in censoring material.

0 (51m 26s):
Okay, time for a quick thing I like, and then a quick thing that I hate. So things that I like today, if you wish to understand what exactly is going on in China, fantastic new book out by a person named Yang Huang. This book is titled The Rise and Fall of the East, how Exams, autocracy, stability, and Technology brought China's success and Why they might lead to its decline. The, the basic premise of the book is that for centuries millennial almost baked into the Chinese cake has been the system of test taking that basically chose single standards of merit in order to elevate people. And this has led to top-down authoritarian rule in China. It's been incredibly durable, a lot more durable than it would've been in say, Russia.

0 (52m 7s):
And it's why you can have Xi Jinping who's being as authoritarian as he wants to be and still maintain control of a country that theoretical. Like why, why, why does it never fragment? Why does China never come apart? Why does it seem as though it's continues to be durable even when it's economic numbers go down? It also has some lessons to teach the United States about how economics ought to work and also about the sort of standards that we use in terms of economic growth. So one of the points made in the rise and fall of the East is that basically all of the test-based systems for elevating people inside the C C P are rooted in growth of G D P If. you are a regional leader in China, and you grew G D P in your area. You're very likely to be looked at for a top post in the centralized government. Well, the problem is that G D P is a, is a standard that is largely reliant in China on government borrowing and spending, which is why you see China now in serious trouble.

0 (52m 52s):
It's borrowed and spent way too much money. It's why you have giant empty cities in some of these places. 'cause if you're a public official and you wish to rise in the Chinese Communist Party, what better way to do it than borrow a bunch of money, build a bunch of empty cities, and claim that you just increased G D P dramatically? It's a really fascinating book. Again, go check it out. The Rise and Fall of the East by Yang Huang, if you're interested in the actual situation going on with China and the durability of the Chinese regime, even if they are experiencing economic failure. Okay, time for a quick thing that I hate. And so there's a piece by David Gibson, who's director of the Center on Religion and Culture at Fordham University, and he's ripping into American conservative Catholics for being at odds with Pope Francis.

0 (53m 34s):
He's saying that the loudest voices in American Catholicism are, quote, backward looking moralists can disconnected from the roots of the church Catholic tradition and history says Francis is about moving forward, changing to live the gospel message in the midst of current realities. The Pope's war were both surprisingly frank and frankly unsurprising, giving the persistence of right anger directed at his modernizing approach. This episode could be read as part of a long saga of tensions between Rome and the US church. Since the nation's founding popes have regarded the American experiment in democracy with suspicion separation of church and state as dangerous to souls in society, they've issued periodic blasts at Americanism and modernist trends. The election of Pope Francis in 2013 flipped the script. However, suddenly the Vatican began pushing Americans to be more flexible, more pastoral, more inclusive, less doctrinally rigid Rome is now the engine of reform, a historic reversal.

0 (54m 17s):
France is a world leader in combat and climate change. He insistently decries economic injustice in the treatment of migrants while putting new emphasis on the universal rights to healthcare, housing, and decent jobs. Indeed, in Portugal, France criticized the fixation on sins below the waist while if you exploited workers, if you lied or cheated, it didn't matter. Meanwhile says this columnist, much of American church leadership remains focused on a pelvic theology. Okay? Here's the thing. It turns out that the American Catholics who are critical of Francis are right. There are certain unchanging principles in Catholicism, and Francis hasn't changed them, right? Cha Francis has not actually changed the church's position on same-sex marriage. He's not changed the church's position on divorce. He's not changed the church's position on contraception.

0 (54m 57s):
It's just that he keeps making overtures toward those who would, in order to make time on climate change and social redistribution. In essence, he's a liberation theologist who's now occupying the office of, of the Papacy. And American Catholics, more conservative Catholics all over the world know this, which is why he more than any other Pope has created a schism inside the Catholic church. It it, it, that is, that is Francis's fault. And that is not the fault of American Catholics who are hewing exactly the same line they were queuing 20 years ago already. Guys, the rest of the show is continuing right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be talk with Vadi Baum. He has a brand new book out. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.