Mint Mobile (0s):
Ryan Reynolds here from Mint Mobile with the price of just about everything going up during inflation, we thought we'd bring our prices down. So to help us, we brought in a reverse auctioneer, which is apparently a thing. Mitt Mobile Unlimited Premium Wireless. How they to get 30 30 bid? Get 30 bid to get 20. 2020 bid. To get 2020 bid, get 15 15, 15, 15, just 15 bucks a month sold. Give it a try at mint mobile.com/switch. 45 upfront for three months plus taxes and fees promoting for new customers for limited time. Unlimited more than 40 gigabytes per month. Slows full turns@mintmobile.com.

3 (31s):
Yesterday, Michelle Obama, the Democrats Break glass and case of emergency candidate sounded off on Joe Biden and here's what she said,

4 (39s):
And you wonder where are people? Where are we in this? You know, where are our hearts? What's gonna happen in this next election? I am terrified about what could possibly happen because our leaders matter who we select, who speaks for us, who holds that bully pulpit. It affects us in ways that I sometimes I think people take for granted.

3 (1m 3s):
She's speaking for a lot of Democrats right now who are deeply worried that Joe Biden is going to lose the upcoming election to Donald Trump in the latest polls show that Donald Trump is in fact leading Joe Biden in virtually every swing state. Joe Biden is deeply underwater. So yesterday Joe Biden headed to Emmanuel, a ME church in South Carolina. What was he doing there? Well, speaking about the evils of white supremacy and the magic of diversity, equity and inclusion, of course, and he was doing so at the church where the Charleston Massacre took place where white supremacist murdered a bunch of black parishioners. Why was he there? Well, because it's election time and Joe Biden knows the only way he's going to win reelection is if he has heavy black turnout at the ballot box. That's the whole thing. That's been the secret sauce for Democratic electoral victory in recent elections.

3 (1m 46s):
In 2000, just 53.5% of black voters showed up to vote. In 2008 when Barack Obama was on the ballot, that number jumped to a record 60.8%. In 2012, it spiked to a new record, 62%. Then because Barack Obama was not on the ballot in 2016, it dropped back down to 55.9% and Hillary Clinton lost the election. When Joe Biden won in 2020, that number rebounded to almost 59% and black voters in the 2020 election went for Joe Biden at a 92 to eight clip. Voters of color overall by the Way represented four in 10 of Joe Biden's votes. The black vote for Joe Biden is gonna be especially important because unlike other voters who voted disproportionately by mail in 2020 and probably will not show up this time in the same way black voters were the subgroup most likely to show up and vote in person.

3 (2m 33s):
That means that if mail-in ballots drop in the upcoming election and turnout in person stays kind of the same, you would expect to see heavy black turnout because many people showed up in person in the black community to vote this way. So it's back to the old playbook for Joe Biden racial polarization. This has been the playbook for Democrats my entire lifetime, but it was exacerbated greatly by Barack Obama in 2012 and Joe Biden knows how to play that game because he was the vice president in 2012. Remember that time in 2012 that he said the Mitt Romney? Yes. Mitt Romney, the most milked toast Republican perhaps of all time, was going to put black Americans in chains during the 2012 race. Remember this,

5 (3m 11s):
Look at what they value and look at their budget and what they're proposing. Romney wants to let the, he said in the first a hundred days, he's gonna let the big banks once again write their wrong rules. Unchain Wall Street, they're gonna put y'all back in chains.

3 (3m 32s):
Yes, Mitt Romney was going to re slavery black people in the United, in the United States, sure that Joe Biden made that contention in 2012 and it worked. So in 2024, fast forward 12 years and we're gonna do it again. Joe Biden by the Way in 2012, not remotely the same as Joe Biden in 2024. Anybody who believes that that man is not in a state of mental and physical decline, watch the tapes of Joe Biden back to back from 2012 and watch the tapes now. He was never any great shakes or editorially. He was never any sort of magically brilliant human being, but at least he could speak words from his face hole with some level of fluidity that is all over. In any case, it's now 2024 it Joe Biden needs black votes and it was time to head to a historically black church victimized by white violence and then proclaim that he's going to stand up against all the evil white Americans who might vote for Donald Trump.

3 (4m 22s):
We get to more of this in just one

Birch Gold Group (4m 23s):
second. As we've been talking about 2024, it's gonna be totally crazy, a wild ride. The dollar is losing, its buying power faster than wages can increase supply chain problems in the Middle East. Possibility of Chinese blockade of Taiwan's. Let me ask you, how are you protecting your savings? Consider diversifying with gold from Birch Gold Group. For decades, gold has been the choice of investors and central banks to hedge against inflation. I'm using Birch Gold myself for years. Birch Gold can help you create a well thought out and balanced investment strategy. They'll help you convert an existing IRA or 401k into an IRA in gold without paying a penny out of pocket. And this month only when you open that gold IRA with Birch Gold, you get a free signed copy of my book, The Authoritarian Moment. Couldn't be more relevant, but you need to text Ben to 98. 98 98 to qualify Birch Gold has been the exclusive gold company of The Daily Wire for the past seven years. That's where I get my gold. That's where you should get yours as well. Text Ben to 98. 98 98. Protect your savings. Claim your eligibility for a free sign. Copy of The Authoritarian Moment. If you diversify now, you're gonna feel a lot better when the bleep hits the fan a little bit later. Text Ben to 98. 98, 98 right now

Boll & Branch (5m 24s):
folks, what does everyone do when shopping online? Well, you jump to the reviews and you see what customers actually think. Well, Bollen Branch did the hard work for you. In a recent customer survey, 96% said Bollen Brandand sheets get softer with every single wash. Bollen Brandand sheets are made from the finest 100% organic cotton threads on planet Earth, buttery to the touch, super breathable Boll and branch sheets are perfect for both cooler and warmer months. That luxurious signature hemp sheets were made without pesticides, formaldehyde, or other harsh chemicals. They really do get softer with every single wash. Best of all, boll and Branch gives you a 30 night risk-free trial with free shipping returns on all orders. You're not gonna wanna return them. We love our bull and branch product. In fact, when I'm on the road, I actually travel with their cable knit throw blanket. It is that good. Their product is just awesome. After a long day, nothing feels better than a restful night's sleep. And the softest, most luxurious sheets sleep better at night with the softest sheets from Bull and Branch. Get 15% off your very first order when you use promo Coach Shapiro at bull and branch.com. That's bull and branch spelled B-O-L-L-A-N-D branch.com promo code Shapiro exclusions apply C site for details, bo and branch.com.

3 (6m 25s):
He went to again, Emanuel, a ME church in South Carolina, not because Donald Trump had anything to do with the shooting at e Emmanuel, a ME church in South Carolina. After all that took place in 2015. Donald Trump was not yet president. It was a year before Donald Trump was President Barack Obama was president at the time, but the idea is that Donald Trump's ideology is the same as the ideology of the evil white supremacist who shot up the church. That was the idea and that's why Joe Biden showed up there. It's a really cynical play and it's a really ugly play, but it's something Joe Biden is quite familiar with again, because he has done it before. So he shows up at this church and the audience begins cheering four more years. Now, I've been informed by reliable sources that Christian nationalism is one of the great threats to America, Christian nationalism, the abuse of church for political purposes.

3 (7m 10s):
Of course, that only means that evangelical Christians should not support Donald Trump because that would be Christian nationalism. But when you cheer four more years in a historically black church, well that means just that's what God wants you to do. Apparently. That's like the good kind of Christian nationalism. Here's some of that.

5 (7m 27s):
Thank you. Please. Four, thank you. Four

6 (7m 30s):
Years, four, four years. Four, four

5 (7m 34s):
Years. Thank you. Four,

6 (7m 35s):
Four years. Thank you. Four

3 (7m 39s):
Years Joe Biden doesn't appear to know quite where he is.

5 (7m 41s):
Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. It's gonna go. That's

3 (7m 47s):
A lot of politics in a church right there. Okay, well he needs something in his head, so perhaps it will go to his head. Perhaps it won't, there's not much left up there. Again, the theme of his campaign is going to be that Donald Trump is a Nazi. That's gonna be the theme of his campaign and he is laid it out in the past four days. First at Valley Forge, where he suggested that Donald Trump literally was a Nazi, that he was repeating Nazi sloganeering and that if Donald Trump won the 2024 election, there would be no further elections. And then on Monday when he went to this church where he suggested that if Donald Trump wins, white supremacy will have won. Joe Biden led off this speech by of course talking about the massacre that took place in June of 2015 in Charleston, South Carolina. Here we go.

5 (8m 24s):
On June 17th, 2015, the beautiful souls, five survivors and five survivors invited a stranger into this church to pray with them. The word of God was pierced by bulletin, hate of rage, propelled by not just gunpowder but by a poison. Poison has for too long haunted this nation. What is that poison white supremacy

3 (8m 54s):
Again, this idea that white supremacy is a widespread ideology in the United States is absolute sheer nonsense. It's just nonsense. That doesn't mean there aren't dangerous white supremacists out there. I know there are many of them send me death threats, but the idea that that is like a chief threat to the United States right now in ideology in which white people believe that they are supreme to other races in the United States, there is zero poll data to suggest that white supremacy is a serious underlying problem in the United States. Americans generally speaking do not think like that, but this constant harping on race, which is what Barack Obama began in 2012. Remember in 2008 he ran as a racial uniter, not a racial divider. In 2012, he ran as somewhat of a racial divider. His entire plan in the 2012 election was racial polarization so as to drive minority turnout against, again, Mitt Romney, the most generic Republican.

3 (9m 41s):
It is possible to generic and it worked, but you can see the results of that. Now the the mitt that Democrats have to tell themselves is that by suggesting that white supremacy is a continuing vast problem in the United States, they're somehow making the United States a better place. And that's what Joe Biden suggested yesterday. He was talking about the bringing down of the confederate flag, which happened in the aftermath of that shooting at Emanuel a ME. You'll recall that the shooter in that particular case, there are pictures of him with the Confederate flag. This turned into a nationwide debate over the Confederate flag and whether it should be allowed to be flown in any state monuments or appear in any state monuments whatsoever. I thought there were frankly, pretty good arguments on both sides of the aisle on that particular, on that particular disagreement, there were a lot of people who believed the Confederate flag in the South was more of a cultural thing that no longer called to the original purposes of the Confederacy.

3 (10m 32s):
Obviously, black Americans looked at the Confederate flag and they said, well guys, that was the Confederacy. Yeah, I thought there were good arguments on both sides, but the notion that American race relations got better as a result of that particular debate has been belied by, you know, all of American history since then. Here was Joe Biden playing this game.

5 (10m 49s):
You brought down the Confederate flag in South Carolina, you brought it down. No, you did and you helped the nation heal. You showed what America can overcome, what we can be when we want to be something.

3 (11m 9s):
Now, if he wants to give credit for that to somebody, the person you should credit of course, is one of the Republicans on the other side of the aisle, the governor of South Carolina at the time, Nikki Haley, right? So if you see this as a good thing, then Nikki Haley is the person who actually took the confederate flag off of monuments at the at the state capitol. With all of that said again, the idea that all of this helped bring down the temperature on race relations in the United States is obviously untrue when Joe Biden says that this helped the nation heal. And lemme lemme just read you the poll statistics again. This is one of the most shocking poll statistics in modern American history. These, these poll statistics. It says quote, would you say relations between white and black people are very good, somewhat good, somewhat bad, or very bad?

3 (11m 49s):
And here are the stats for very or somewhat good, right? Good race relations. Okay? As of 2001, 70% of black Americans said that race relations were very or somewhat good, and 62% of white Americans said the same. In 2003, those numbers were 69% of white Americans said they were very good or somewhat good. 59% of black Americans said they were very or somewhat good. In 2008, 70% of white Americans said that race relations were very or somewhat good, and 61% of black Americans said that they were very or somewhat good. In 2013, still 72% of white Americans said that race relations were very or somewhat good. 66% of black Americans said they were very or somewhat good.

3 (12m 30s):
And then something happened. Then something happened. In 2014, the Black Lives Matter movement launched and it made the claim that America was a deeply racist place filled with white supremacy. It was again, an overhang of the Obama Biden 2012 campaign extended forward in time through 2013 and 2014. And so when the Ferguson riots broke out and Barack Obama decided to take the side of the rioters, effectively speaking, when that happened, when the Black Lives Matter movement started to make the false claim that America was racist in all of its iterations, race relations absolutely plummeted in the United States. In 20 13, 70 2% of white Americans said race relations were good, and so did 66% of black Americans.

3 (13m 11s):
By 20 15, 40 5% of white Americans said race relations were good. That is a 27 percentage point drop and sim simultaneously 15% percentage points, fewer Black Americans said race relations were good. Only 51% of black Americans said race relations were good. This is by 2015. Then those numbers continued to decline in 2021. Well, Joe Biden is president with a Democratic senate. 43% of white Americans say race relations are good, and only 33% of black Americans say race relations are good. One third of blacks and fewer than half of whites say race relations are good.

3 (13m 52s):
Again, that is from 72% of whites and 66% of blacks in 2013 I mean why did that happen? And the answer is, the more you talk about the polarization between races, the more you pretend that that is the source of American conflict. The worse things get. And our political leadership class, particularly on the left, has a heavy stock in doing particularly this. And so Joe Biden, because he needs black votes, he's going to try to transmute the white supremacy shooting that happened in Charleston into a debate about January 6th. Now again, I think that's a really awkward fit. There are very few people, black or white, who believe that Donald Trump is like a vicious anti-black racist. Again, one of Donald Trump's signal accomplishments, one I disagreed with was criminal justice reform, which was pushed forward by Trump and Van Jones, who's a black advocate obviously, but this is Joe Biden's play racially polarized the country for political profit.

3 (14m 46s):
That is the game.

PreBorn! (14m 47s):
Folks. Last year, because of you pre born's network of clinics saved over 58,000 babies. Thank you to everyone who made this possible. When Antoinette found out she was pregnant, she was in a terrible place. She didn't know how she could raise her child on her own. She searched for an abortion clinic, but God led her to a pre-born clinic where she was introduced to her baby on ultrasound and that changes people's lives. When she saw her baby in heard its heartbeat, she broke down crying. The nurse gently reminded her, A child is a blessing and Antoinette chose life. Preborn saves 200 babies each and every day for just 28 bucks a month, you can sponsor an ultrasound and Help save a Life. When a mom sees her baby on the ultrasound and hears their heartbeat, she's twice as likely to choose life. Just dial pound two 50, say keyword baby. That's pound two five zero baby. or visit preborn.com/ Ben. That's preborn.com/ Ben. My wife and I, we have four kids. We met all of them on ultrasound well before they were born. Give a mom the privilege of doing that today and help her choose life. Just dial pound two 50, say keyword baby. That's pound two five zero baby. or visit preborn.com/ Ben.

3 (15m 49s):
So here he was trying to link up the lost cause of the Civil War, okay? That is the myth that was created by Southerners in the aftermath of the Civil War. And there was something magnificent going on with the Confederacy and that that cause had been lost in the aftermath and that the south was ruined and all of this by the loss of the Civil War. He's trying to link that up with January 6th. I mean this is some pretty astonishing stuff.

5 (16m 13s):
So let me be clear. For those who don't seem to know, slavery was the cause of the Civil War. There is no negotiation about that.

3 (16m 24s):
It's a subtweet of Nikki Haley right there.

5 (16m 26s):
Now we're living in an era of a second loss. Cause once again, there's some in this country trying, trying to turn a loss into a lie. A lie which if allowed to live, will once again bring terrible damage to this country. This time. The lie is about the 2020 election. The election which you made. Your voice is heard and your power known.

3 (16m 54s):
Okay? Again, this is amazing stuff. Trying to link up the lost cause narrative about the Civil War with Donald Trump claiming that he won the 2020 election is that's, that's such an insane stretch. That's such a but, and it's so obvious again, what he's doing. It's so obvious this culminated in Joe Biden calling Donald Trump, a loser to wild applause at this church Again, when wild applause happens at a church for political figures, who our right winging, that's Christian National is when it happens for Joe Biden. That's politics. Here we go.

5 (17m 23s):
There's one thing they don't have. They don't have respect for the 81 million people who voted the other way, voted for my candidacy and voted to end the presidency. In their world, these Americans, including you, don't count. But that's not the real world. That's not democracy, that's not America. In America, we all count in America. We witness to serve all those who in fact participate and losers are taught to concede when they lose and he's a loser

3 (18m 5s):
To wild. Whoops and cheers. Obviously, Biden concluded this speech by suggesting once again that January 6th, it's all about January 6th for for Biden, it's, it's just gonna be January 6th from now until the end of time for Joe Biden. He is now connecting that to opposition to diversity, equity, and inclusion. DEI is an outgrowth of postmodernist theory. To give you a very brief one minute synopsis of what DEI is in its history, postmodernism is a philosophy that says there is no such thing as truth. There is just power promoted by Michelle fuko among others. The basic idea is that anything you believe is not actually a belief in a truth or in a system. What you actually believe is a reflection of your own desire for power.

3 (18m 47s):
And that means that all the systems in America are not about whether they work or whether they don't, whether they're fair, whether they're not. They're just about the people who succeed under that system, creating power structures to benefit themselves. That was first transmuted by Marxists into claims about rich Americans who's structuring the system for their own benefit. And then when that didn't work, it was transmuted into racial claims. Those racial claims became critical. Race theory, the basic idea being that all the structures of American society are inherently racist, perpetrated by white supremacists in order to reinforce that supremacy and that transmuted into diversity, equity, and inclusion. The basic idea of which is that again, all of the systems of America are fundamentally broken, and the way you can tell this is because there's unequal outcome by group and that can only be rectified by unequal treatment of groups.

3 (19m 31s):
That's what diversity, equity and inclusion is. And this is Joe Biden's pitch. His pitch to black audiences is that he's going to create special carve-outs for blacks. That is what he's doing right here. That, that, that is why he's saying this sort of stuff. It's why he's trying to link up all of this into one giant ball of mishmash. So here we go. He's gonna link together in this statement, January 6th, an attempt to destroy DEI and a zero sum view of America, which is amazing by the Way because DEI is inherently a zero sum view of America. When you say DEI is the situation that we should promote, what you are saying is that basically there should be racial quotas. Racial quotas are by their very nature zero sum. If there is one slot, and it has to go to either the most meritorious candidate or the most diverse candidate, and they're not the same person in this particular scenario, if that happens, one person gets the slot.

3 (20m 19s):
That is by definition, a zero sum game. A meritocracy is not a zero sum game because there are positive externalities to the meritocracy. In other words, people who are best at the job get the job, and that helps everybody. When it comes to diversity, equity, inclusion, there are no positive externalities. There are only people who win and people who lose. But that's the opposite of what Joe Biden is preaching because he's fitting.

5 (20m 42s):
The lies that led to January 6th are part of a broader attack on the truth of America today that we all have seen before. The same movement that throughout the mob of the United States capitalism, just trying to rewrite history January 6th, they're trying to determine to erase history and your future banning books, denying your right to vote and have it counted, destroying diversity, equality, inclusion all across America, harboring hate and replacing hope with anger and resentment and dangerous view of America.

5 (21m 22s):
That narrow view of America, zero sum view of America that says, if you win, I lose. If you succeed, it must be I fail. If you get ahead, I fall behind. And maybe worst of all, if I hold you down, I lift myself up.

3 (21m 40s):
Oh my God. The levels of projection here are absolutely astonishing. That is literally the entire Democratic playbook. If I, if you win, I lose right? When it comes to economics, if somebody succeeded, it's because they must have done something wrong. And so we have to punish them for their success and tear them down because obviously the 1% are cruel and evil. As Bernie Sanders says, if you succeed, it must be that I failed, right? As opposed to if the person next door to me is rich, and I'm also a little bit richer because he's good at his job and sold me a good product or service, we all benefited. That is precisely the opposite of the zero sum economics in which Democrats constantly engage. We get to more on this in just one second.

American Financing (22m 14s):
First, it is 2024. A lot of us are trying to get our finances in order. There's some great news for homeowners. Actually, interest rates have now dropped down to the fives. That's a lot lower than where they were just last year. If you've been buried in high interest credit card debt, now would be the time to break free with American Financing. American Financing can help you access the cash in your home to pay off your high interest debt. Last year, their salary based mortgage consultants helped customers save an average of 854 bucks a month. That's like giving yourself a $10,000 raise a year. What a great way to start the new year. And if you start today, you may be able to delay two mortgage payments. Call American Financing today at (866) 569-4711. That's 8 6 6 5 6 9 47 11. or visit american Financing dot net NMLS 1 8 2 3 3 4 NMLS consumer access.org. APR for rates in the fives, start at 6.406% for well qualified borrowers. Call 8 6 6 5 6 9 47 11 for details about credit costs and terms.

3 (23m 11s):
And he says that the Republican philosophy is, I hold you down. I lift myself up. Who's trying to hold who down? Who's trying to hold who down? When you suggest that the meritocracy is deeply flawed and is in fact a reinforcement gier for power, what you are trying to do is hold down the meritorious, this Harrison Bergrin by Kurt Vonnegut. You are taking the most meritorious and you are saddling them with burdens in order to quote unquote make things more equal. The most famous quote along these lines that that springs to mind here is Barack Obama being asked in 2008, if increasing the capital gains tax actually lowered economic growth, would he'd still do it? And he said yes, for purposes of fairness, because dragging people back down to the median is more important than everybody rising, even if that rate of increase is unequal.

3 (23m 59s):
And this is in a nutshell, Joe Biden's campaign. This is why he's not gonna be able to let go of DEI. Joe Biden is now running directly into a problem. The problem that he has is that the way that he could win is theoretically to go C Clintonian. Third way he could, he'd go c Clintonian third way, and he could win again. If you go back to elections that Democrats have won in the past, what you'll see is that there are many elections that Democrats have won where black voters did not show up in the kinds of numbers they showed up for. For Barack Obama, for example, in 1992, the black turnout rate was 54%. Bill Clinton won in 1996, the black turnout rate was 50%.

3 (24m 39s):
Bill Clinton won in 2000. The black turnout rate was 53.5%. George Toby Bush won, but Al Gore won the popular vote. And what they could do is they could rebuild a coalition of white working class voters. But Joe Biden doesn't wanna do that. Joe Biden is a believer in the Barack Obama Coalition, which is four in 10 Democratic voters being of color and pandering to people, right? That is the basic idea here. And so he can't let go of DEI and he also can't let go of his radical racialized left wing. He can't do it. Now, the costs of DEI are very clear to the United States. You're starting to see it at corporations by the Way who are all letting go of this ESG nonsense. That's environmental, social government nonsense that is designed to essentially subsume the profitability of corporations in favor of left-wing ideology.

3 (25m 26s):
And corporations are letting go of that because a complete waste of money. And it undermines morale and it undermines the ability of the company to do business. But the cost of DEI are insanely high, like insanely high. For example, at the University of Michigan, according to the college fix, the University of Michigan has at least 241 paid employees now focused on DEI. Payroll costs exceed $30 million annually. $30 million that would cover in-state tuition and fees for almost 1800 graduate students. 13 DEI staff members earn more than $200,000. What exactly have they added to the University of Michigan? So far? Nothing and precisely the opposite because again, DEI ideology, which is rooted in the idea that the only reason certain groups succeed in America and certain groups fail is because of inequity and evil.

3 (26m 13s):
That ideology has promoted radicalism. You can see that by the Way. There's a, an amazing clip that's now making the rounds from Google's DEI leader, a person named Ariele Parker, explaining why DEI is good. Because the opposite would be to teach people to be colorblind, which apparently is bad

7 (26m 30s):
To keep telling people that over and over is so frustrating. And I was just on TikTok. And there's a trend where parents are teaching their kids not to see color, quote unquote. And I'm like, okay. So the next round of people that are gonna be joining, joining our workforce, this next generation are gonna be dealing with the same issues that we're dealing with now. Because to say you don't see color, you don't see me, you don't care to acknowledge the struggles that people like me face.

3 (26m 56s):
Yeah, that that's a wild statement. That if you teach your kids to be colorblind, that's somehow terrible because then you're not seeing the struggles other people face. Well, it, it depends on whether that person's, actually, this is the person who is leading DEI at Google. What, what is the additional struggle this person is experiencing? Did clouding gay experience additional struggles or additional benefits thanks to her race? I mean this is insane. Instead of looking at people as individuals, they look at them as members of groups. And then they suggest that this is how we ought to judge people. This also by the Way, leads to anti-Semitism because the crossover between DEI and anti-Semitism, it's a Venn diagram circle. Why? Well, because DEI is a conspiracy theory about power. It suggests that the most powerful and the most successful people must have gotten there through exploitation and evil.

3 (27m 37s):
And then people on the left look and they see the Jews are disproportionately successful in the United States, and they look at Israel versus the Palestinians, and they see that Israel is a disproportionately successful state, a wildly successful state in a deeply unsuccessful part of the world. And they say, well, somebody must have been victimized in order for that to happen. That's the zero sum view of the world. And Joe Biden can't let it go. He can't let go of that zero sum view of the world because that's how he feels He's going to win election, which is why yesterday at Emmanuel a ME in the middle of his speech, a bunch of protesters got up and they started chanting about Gaza. Now this might be a good opportunity for Joe Biden to have what used to be called a Sister soldier moment. So very famously, bill Clinton, when he was running for president in 1992, he made a statement in which he went off on Cysa Soldier.

3 (28m 27s):
Why? Because in the middle of that campaign, she did an interview. Ssta Soldier was a, a hip hop mc and political activist and all this. And she made a comment in an interview at the Washington Post. She was asked a question quote, even the people themselves who were perpetrating the violence of the LA riots, did they think that was wise? Was that a wise reasoned action? And she said, yeah, it was wise I mean if black people kill black people every day, why not have a week and kill white people? White people, this government and that mayor were well aware of the fact that black people were dying every day in LA under gang violence. So if you're a gang member and you would normally be killing somebody, why not kill a white person? Do you think somebody thinks that white people are better, are above and beyond dying when they would kill their own kind? So Clinton speaking by the Way at the Rainbow Coalition, Jesse Jackson's organization in 1992 running for president responded to that quotation and to something that soldier had said in a music video where she said, quote, if there are any good white people, I haven't met them.

3 (29m 16s):
And Clinton said, if you took the words white and black and you reversed them, you might think David Duke was, was giving that speech right now that probably won Bill Clinton, not just the nomination, but the presidency, right? That that was a, that was very widely reported at the time. That sort of sista soldier moment became a buzzword in American politics of speaking truth to people in your own party who are too radical. But Joe Biden isn't doing that. So Joe Biden has a bunch of protesters who get up and they start chanting in favor of Hamas, right? They say they wanna cease fire in Gaza, they wanna cease fire in Gaza by the Way as Hamas continues to kill Israeli soldiers and hold females hostage. Worth mentioning here by the Way that the International Red Cross apparently refuses to spend any time trying to visit the female hostages who are being held in the worst possible conditions.

3 (30m 2s):
And again, Israeli soldiers who are trying to free those hostages and kill members of Hamas are dying every day. Does Joe Biden say to these radicals, guys, you know, you're talking about Hamas is an evil group that must be extirpated. Does he say that? Does he say your belief that Hamas is some sort of part of the broader racial matrix into which you have cast America is just false? That it's a lie? That your bizarre idea that Palestinians are brown and Israelis are white, that that's stupid and that's not how you should think about morality? Does Joe Biden say that? No, he concedes to them because he has to concede to his radical left-wing base. 'cause he thinks that radical left-wing base is gonna need to turn out in vast numbers to win in reelection by the Way. This is how you lose the middle in this country. It turns out 62% of Americans want America to give more support to Israel in its current war against Kamas.

3 (30m 46s):
But here is Joe Biden being absolutely castrated by a bunch of radical protestors at this church.

5 (30m 53s):
Without the truth, there's no light without light, there's no path from this darkness,

6 (31m 1s):
And you really care about the live lost. Here, you should honor the cease fire Palestine cease.

5 (31m 11s):
That's, that's, that's alright. That's all I

6 (31m 18s):
See. Death. See right now, right now

5 (31m 23s):
I understand their passion and I've been quietly working. I've been quietly working with the Israeli government to get them to reduce and significantly get out of gossip using all that I can to do.

3 (31m 43s):
Now, these are a bunch of nuts inside the church, okay? There's a bunch of left-wing radical kooks. He could have just ignored them and said nothing. Instead he says, I understand your passion by the Way. This is how the Democratic party sees its most radical constituents. They're just too passionate. That's really the problem. Riots in Ferguson, they're too, they're too passionate. I mean, they, they, yeah, we don't want them burning things maybe, but they, they have a point. I mean, we can see why they're mad. And it's the same thing when you have people yelling at you about protecting Kamas in the Gaza Strip. Is Biden willing to say anything? Of course not. Because the entire Democratic party infrastructure's unwilling to say or do anything, which is why you're seeing protesters clogging up traffic lanes in New York City yesterday, protesters clogged up basically every major traffic artery in New York City.

3 (32m 23s):
Some 300 were arrested and then promptly released because that's how it works in New York City. Here's some video

8 (32m 29s):
Fault. You're destructing traffic. Idiots

3 (32m 37s):
Can't. This is it by the Way is a black father telling people to move. But you know, you, you can't. You gotta let the wokes win you. You gotta leave him alone. He needs to leave. This is illegal. Where are the cops? The guy who's trying to push people outta the way so he can go where he wants to go is not wrong. He is correct. The way that law works in the United States is if it is not enforced, other people will take it into their own hands who try to enforce it. Look at this. They shut down entire freeways. It's absurd. They shut down the Holland Tunnel, they shut down the Brooklyn Bridge in favor of Hamas.

3 (33m 17s):
Where are the cops? Where are the cops? Throw these people in jail and all of this stops tomorrow. They don't wanna spend any time in jail because they're weaklings. They're perfectly happy to do this because they know there are no consequences. The difference between civil rights protesters and these jackasses civil rights protesters. Number one, we're protesting for something good. And number two, we're willing to go to jail for that belief. These people are protesting for something evil and are not willing to go to jail for that belief. You know what the easy solution is? Arrest them and put them in jail. It's not particularly difficult, but Democrats won't do that because they believe that these people are part of their base. It's totally crazy. We'll get to more on this in just a second.

PrizePicks (33m 51s):
First, the NFL playoffs are finally here. Means now is the perfect time to join Prize picks. Even if you don't follow the NFL Prize picks offers projections on pretty much all the sports. There are N-B-A-M-L-B-N-F-L-N-H-L-P-G-A, college Sports eSports disc golf, whatever it is you are into prize picks is the easiest and fastest way to play daily fans. C Sports. You pick two to six players and you choose whether they, they'll score more or less than their prize picks Projection. You can win up to 25 times your money on a single entry. You don't compete against other humans, it's just you versus the Projections. Plus prize picks has a reboot policy that keeps your entries in play. Even if one of your players gets injured for NFL games in college football, top 25 matchups. If you have a player who exits the game in the first half and doesn't return in the second, that player is then rebooted. Prize Picks is the only daily fancy sports platform with injury insurance. Producer Jake, huge fan of college football last night. Jake did pretty well during the national championship game between Michigan and Washington. Michigan's quarterback, JJ McCarthy and the running back Blake Corrum helped Jake win his picks. Prize picks. Allows Jake to enjoy his weekends by making entries on his favorite players. And Jake loves that easy to use interface. You will too. Go to prize picks.com/ Ben. Use promo code BEN for a first deposit match up to a hundred bucks. That's prize picks.com/ BEN with promo code Ben for a deposit match up to $100.

Bentkey (35m 5s):
Also, folks, this is a no-brainer. If you wanna protect your kids from leftist indoctrination, well the best way to do that, go on over Bentkey. Start a 14 day free trial to Bentkey. It's our new Kids entertainment app from The. Daily. Wire Bentkey is the only streaming app that offers high quality family friendly shows that actually reflect your values. Bentkey features amazing characters, timeless stories. Your kids are gonna love it. My kids absolutely love it. We've got new episodes streaming every Saturday morning, which means the Saturday morning cartoons are back. Don't take my word for it. See for yourself. You can try Bentkey for free for 14 days, no catch, no gimmick, no hidden fees, just Pure, unadulterated awesome content your kids are going to love and you can trust. All you have to do is Use code Unlock at checkout. You'll get 14 days of unlimited access to Bent key's, world of adventure. Go to Bentkey dot com and Use code Unlock at TenUp to start your free trial today.

3 (35m 53s):
Okay, meanwhile, Jamil Mod maba, an organizer with the Palestinian Youth movements had our aim today was to clog the arteries of New York City to draw attention to the ongoing genocide of the Palestinian people and the people of Gaza American bombs and American made internationally prohibited. Chemical weapons are being dropped on Arabs, again financed by American taxpayer dollars, et cetera, et cetera. The protestors were calling for a permanent ceasefire, an end of the US government's arming of Israel and end to the cease of Gaza and end to Zionist occupation. They believe by the Way that Zionist occupation means Tel Aviv and the release of all Palestinian political prisoners, which means the release of terrorists. This is what they're calling for. And the Democratic party can't just say no. And one of the reasons the Democratic party cannot say no is by polling data. The Democratic Party coalition includes a lot of people who sympathize with Hamas.

3 (36m 36s):
It is unfortunate, it's an unfortunate reality. It's also one of the reasons why things that would absolutely be national stories if the ethnicities were different are not national stories. Let me give you an example. So apparently on Thursday night there was a girl's basketball game between a school called the Leffell School, a private Jewish school in Hartsdale and a school called Roosevelt High School, a public school in Yonkers. They played a non-League girls' basketball game in the middle of the game, which turned physically violent. A Roosevelt player told a visiting Jewish opponent, I support Hamas, you effing Jew. That's according to the New York Post. The Jewish school head coach held a discussion with the players. They decided to end the game after the third quarter following the incident, lethel senior player Robin Bosworth wrote an op-ed saying the right from the beginning of the game, there were substantially more jabs and comments thrown at the players on our team than what I've experienced in a long time.

3 (37m 27s):
Apparently the Roosevelt players were shouting Free Palestine along with anti-Semitic slurs. She said, I've played a sport every athletic season throughout my high school career. I've never experienced this kind of hatred directed at one of my teams before. Instead of responding to hatred with more of the same, we chose to separate ourselves from the situation. So why wasn't this a national story? If this had been in a black team being insulted by white people using the N word, then that would be a national news story for like a week. Why didn't? Well, because if you look at pictures of the game, it was minorities, people of color who were insulting Jews. And that means the intersectional vi, the intersectional hierarchy has not been violated. This is the problem with DI. It's the problem with radicals inside the Democratic party base and by the Way.

3 (38m 7s):
This is metastasizing according to resume builder.com. In November of 2022, resume builders surveyed 1,131 US hiring managers and recruiters about their views on Jews. Key findings, 26% of hiring managers say they're less likely to move forward with Jewish applicants because quote, Jews have too much power and control and, and 26% make assumptions about whether a candidate is Jewish based on appearance. 23% say they want fewer Jews in their industry. DEI amounts to this, but that's not all DEI is DEI also suggests of course, that America's systems, all of them, including our immigration system, are deeply racist.

3 (38m 47s):
And the only way to rectify that is as a OC says, to legalize everyone who wants to cross the border. Everything is seen by the Way by Democrats in terms of this sort of racial conflict. This is why Mayor Brandon Johnson, the male, Lori Lightfoot of Chicago, he says that when Greg Abbott is sending illegal immigrants to major Democratic cities, he's doing so because he's targeting black people. Every game is played the same way in the Democratic party circles. It's really ugly. Here we go.

9 (39m 13s):
What are your thoughts about the case? And is this an action you would consider taking as well?

10 (39m 20s):
Well, you know, look, you're very, you're absolutely right about the intentions of Governor Abbott. He is attacking democratically ran cities and particularly cities that are being led by black leaders or leaders of color. This is unconscionable I mean. It's a very raggedy approach. And quite frankly, not only is it reckless and raggedy, but it is evil spirited.

3 (39m 42s):
It is evil spirited. Why? It's apparently racist. It's racist to ask that a sanctuary city take in, you know the people, they say they're going to provide sanctuary. And this has to be what's motivating US policy at this point, because US policy is a bleep show. Understand there are a bunch of factors at the border. The biggest factor, of course is that the United States has changed its laws so that if you apply for asylum, which means literally you arrive on the border and you say, I feared to go back to my home country. We will process you and we'll let you into the interior of the United States. Alejandro Mayorkas told border patrol agents that quote above 85% of all illegal immigrants arriving on the border are released into the United States. Now for a long time, title 42 allowed people to be turned back from the border.

3 (40m 23s):
They just said, we're not taking you in. Go back to your, go back to the Mexican side of the border. But that is no longer happening because Title 42 is ended by the Biden administration. And so now above 85% of people showing up on the border are just released into the United States. That's insane. Mayorca said last week on special report, well more than a million migrants were released into the United States annually and argued repeatedly it's up to Congress to provide more funding. So if it's more than a million released into the United States annually, then that 2.3 million statistic that the DHS released the other day is a lie. It's not true. It means that over the course of this administration, according to Mayorkas himself, at least 3 million people have been released into the United States border Patrol agents have told me there are at least a million known God aways, which means there are probably another seven to 800,000 unknown God aways if their percentages are correct.

3 (41m 13s):
So you're talking about under Joe Biden, a minimum about 5 million people have entered the country illegally. You know this benefits by the Way, the drug cartels, the drug cartels are making absolute bank on this sort of stuff. According to the House Committee on Homeland Security, in 2021, cartels made $13 billion just from human trafficking and smuggling because everybody who is crossing the border is paying the coyote's 6,008,000 up to $25,000 for being smuggled across the border. And by the Way, the drug cartels are using those vast number of illegal migrants in order to distract border patrol from policing the other parts of the border.

3 (41m 55s):
So what they do is they drop off a huge contingent of illegal immigrants at some border Patrol way station. And then because of Joe Biden, all these people have to be bused to a detention center as soon as humanly possible and then processed and let into the interior of the United States as soon as humanly possible. Up to 90% of all border patrol agents are now stabbed on busing and administrative duties. We have turned them into babysitters. And meanwhile, the entire border is left completely unmanned, which means that people are rushing across the border. The ones who don't want to get caught, the vast majority of people walking into the country actually wanna get caught. They're walking across and they're waving at the border patrol agents and saying, Hey, pick me up, come take me. But the ones who don't wanna get caught are able to evade arrest because there are no border patrol agents anywhere along large swaths of the American Mexico border.

3 (42m 43s):
And what does that, what does that look like? It looks like the amount of fentanyl in the country extraordinarily rising according to that's aim. Homeland Security Committee, fentanyl costs as little as 10 cents to produce. That's a fake prescription pill laced with fentanyl. It can be sold for 10 to 30 bucks, which means 10 kilos of fentanyl are worth about $20 million. $20 million. Okay. Just to explain how much fentanyl is now entering the country in 2023, according to border patrol itself, fentanyl seizures, these are just what was seized is 27,000 pounds. 27,000 pounds of fentanyl that would calculate out to almost $24.4 billion worth of fentanyl that was caught at the border.

3 (43m 28s):
And way more is getting through than is getting caught because the stuff that's getting caught at the border are morons who are largely trying to bring it through ports of entry or people who are getting caught, which is a minority of the people who are now entering the country illegally. But apparently it's racist to mention any of this. Apparently it's bigoted to mention any of this. There is no reason to leave the border open the way the border has been left open and Mexico is holding Joe Biden over the barrel. Apparently, according to Fox News, Mexico's president is now demanding $20 billion basically in cash, plus work permits for 10 million people from south of the border in exchange for immigration help. Also, Mexico says the United States has to end its blockade on Cuba and cut Venezuela sanctions because Lopez Obrador, who's the leader of the Mexican government, is in fact a pinko socialist.

3 (44m 17s):
And so he is allied with the entire pink wave that has happened from Venezuela to Cuba to Mexico. And so he basically wants the United States to surrender to him. The only reason the most powerful country on Earth would surrender to this is because there's an internal belief inside the United States that you have to surrender on illegal immigration because it is unjust that people can't just enter via the southern border Willy-nilly. So what do they do? They just lie about it. So Secretary of Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas who listen, I don't know Mayorkas personal role in this versus Joe Biden's. All I do know is that Joe Biden and Alejandro Mayorkas, who made it easier to cross the southern border than any time in modern American history. By far it is not close.

3 (44m 58s):
Again, the process is super simple. You literally walk up to the border and you wave your hand and you say, I don't wanna go back to my home country 'cause I fear to go back to my home country. And they just release you into the interior with a little post-it note that says, come back later, but is gonna pretend everything is normal. So here he was yesterday saying, don't worry, the migration challenge isn't unique to the United States. Spoiler alert, it is. In fact, it's even unique to the United States over the course of the last five years. 'cause this was not happening in 2020.

11 (45m 23s):
The high number of migrants we have encountered at our southern border is a challenge that is not unique to the United States Countries throughout our hemisphere, in fact, throughout the world, are experiencing an unprecedented number of displaced people fleeing poverty, Authoritarian regimes, homes destroyed by extreme weather events, corruption and violence.

3 (45m 51s):
Corruption and violence and extreme weather events. I mean, you mean the things that have driven migration for all of human history. Migration levels is a percentage of the population in general globally are actually kind of similar to what they've been in the past. There's a whole new book out from Harvard University Press all about this. But you know what's not new? What's happening in our southern border right now? You the, it's not new except in the extent the extent is brand new, brand new again. In reality, it is highly likely that at least 5 million illegal immigrants have crossed America's southern border and disappeared into the interior of the United States during Joe Biden's tenure. Meanwhile, Mayorkas again, he keeps lying, says, we're doing everything we can to reduce what he calls now irregular migration. No, you're not.

3 (46m 31s):
You know how I know you're not because you're releasing everyone into the United States with a comeback later date that would not be doing everything you can, would it?

11 (46m 39s):
The majority of all migrants in encountered at the Southwest border throughout this administration have been removed, returned, or expelled, a majority of them. We are doing everything we can within a broken system to incentivize non-citizens to use lawful pathways to impose consequences on those who do not and to reduce irregular migration.

3 (47m 9s):
Absolutely false. Absolutely false. When he says the majority of all migrants encountered throughout the administration have been removed. That's not true. Title 42 allowed for that removal and then Title 42 ended. And then mayors himself says 85% of people showing up at the border are being released into the interior. So Mayorkas now is just changing the Termina. He's gonna play semantic games. He says, when we say they're released, we don't, they're not really released. They're quote unquote released into immigration proceedings. I'll explain what he means by this in a moment.

11 (47m 35s):
It is very important to understand that when an individual is released, they are released into immigration enforcement proceedings where they can make a claim under the laws that Congress has passed it.

3 (47m 49s):
Okay, let me explain what that means on a practical level, what that means. When he says released into immigration proceedings, you're imagining they're kept in a detention facility until their claim can be heard by a judge, at which point very few of them are gonna have an actual asylum claim and most of 'em get expelled wrong. You are. The way this actually works under current Biden protocols is you arrive at the border, you wave your hand, like I said, border Patrol agent picks you up, takes you to detention facility, they process you at the detention facility, and then you are given a comeback later date within 72 hours. And then you are driven to say the Tucson Airport where you are flown to wherever you wish to go. That is what he means by immigration proceedings. I mean that's, that's like when people in New York get arrested for going on a bridge and then they're released with a show up in court later date.

3 (48m 36s):
Was that really a punishment? Particularly when you know that the vast majority of people who get that show up later date are never gonna show up again. Why would they, they like to, to get expelled or they could just, you know, disappear into the interior and never show up again and ICE is not gonna go get them because ICE has not been tasked by the Biden administration with following up with any of these people. The Biden administration is not sending ice to go round up all of the people who released when they missed their sell by date, their court date. The Biden administration has said, unless you have a criminal record, we are not going to do that. Unless you commit an act of criminality, we're not gonna do that, which is by the Way. Why the number of deportations from the interior of the United States has radically dropped under Joe Biden.

3 (49m 17s):
There's only one reason to do this. It's ideological. It is certainly not driven by America's best interest. It's DEI related again, because DEI is just code for America's systems are white supremacist and therefore America has to fix all of its systems by bending over backward. Anytime there is somebody who's not white involved in a, in a proceeding, that would be the basic idea right here. Okay? Meanwhile, on the Trump side of the aisle, an insane story. And if you thought our public officials can't get any more corrupt and ridiculous, wrong, you are. According to the Atlanta Journal Constitution, district attorney Fannie Willis, you remember her? She's the one who fired, filed a RICO case against Donald Trump for election interference down in Georgia.

3 (49m 58s):
She improperly hired an alleged romantic partner to prosecute Donald Trump. So she was banging some dude and he became the prosecutor against Donald Trump and then financially benefited from their relationship. According to a court motion filed Monday, arguing the criminal charges in the case were unconstitutional. The bombshell public filing alleged special prosecutor Nathan Wade, a private attorney, paid for lavish vacations he took with Willis using the Fulton County Funds. His law firm received county records show that Wade has played a prominent role in the election interference case has been paid nearly $654,000 in legal fees since January, 2022, and the DA authorized his compensation. So the way this works is that Fannie Willis hired the dude choose nailing to help prosecute Trump, and then paid him like $655,000 of public money and then took vacations with him.

3 (50m 46s):
According to this motion filed on behalf of Michael Roman, a former Trump campaign official, a Willis spokesperson, said that they'll respond through appropriate court filings but did not re respond to a request for comment, which means you know that's that's true. The document offers no concrete proof of the romanticized between Willis and Wade. But says source is close to both. The special prosecutor and the DA have confirmed they had an ongoing personal relationship. Roman's lawyer said she reviewed the case file and Wade's ongoing divorce proceedings that the Superior Court clerk's office had made copies of certain documents. The case file was later improperly sealed because no court hearing was required as held by law according to the motion. So apparently this all came from a divorce case.

3 (51m 29s):
According to Steven Gillard's, professor Emus at the New York University Law School, he said a closer look at Willis' decision making is needed before it can be determined whether the indictment should be dismissed. He said, if the allegations are true, Willis was conflicted in the investigation and the prosecution of the case and was not able to bring the sort of independent professional judgment her position required. He said that doesn't mean her decisions were improperly motivated, but it does mean the public state could not have the confidence in the independent judgment. Her position required her to exercise In. Other words, perhaps The reason she filed these charges against Donald Trump was not just for personal political, political gain, but because she wanted to go on vacations with the dude that she was paying to prosecute Trump. The filing alleges that Willis and Wade had been involved in a romantic relationship that began before Wade was appointed Special prosecutor that said they traveled to Napa Valley and Florida cruised the Caribbean using tickets.

3 (52m 14s):
Wade purchased from Norwegian and Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines. Although the filing did not include documentation of those purchases, the motion said the checks sent to Wade from Fulton County and a subsequent purchase of vacations. Rulers could amount to Honest Services fraud, which is a federal crime in which a vendor gives kickbacks to an employer. It could also be prosecuted under Wade Fort Federal racketeering statute. That'd be Rico. Oh, they're all the best. Everyone is great at this. It's the genius level stuff happening at every level of American government. alrightyy. Coming up, we are going to get into the continuing controversy over why exactly the Secretary of Defense still has a job after he went completely missing for days on end. Plus, we'll be joined on the line by Yale ex Epstein president and CEO of International Fellowship of Christians and Jews.

International Fellowship of Christians and Jews (52m 56s):
If you're not a member, become member Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans.

3 (52m 59s):
Click that link in the description and join us.

Jeremy's (53m 6s):
We are happy to announce a new product. Jeremy's Razors for Women. Ladies, get a great smooth shave and enjoy knowing that your hard-earned money is going to accompany that celebrates and supports women being women. Get yours today at jeremy's Razors dot com.