ExpressVPN (0s):
Today's show's sponsored by ExpressVPN Thousands of my listeners, have already secured their network data. Join them at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (6s):
It's finally here, the best deal of the year, 50% off new Daily Wire plus annual memberships. Now is the time. Go to Daily Wire dot com slash subscribe to join right now. The story of the current Israel Hamas conflict happens to be extremely simple. Hamas is a genocidal Jew hating organization that openly seeks the extermination of Israel. This makes it only the latest and most radical iteration of a radical Muslim movement that has sought Israel's destruction since long before Israel was even born. That mission has not waned in the 76 years of modern Israel's existence. Unfortunately, that mission also happens to be the passionate belief of a vast majority of Muslims living in the Gaza, Strip and the West Bank.

0 (47s):
Israel, by contrast, is a democracy. The world's only Jewish state and has repeatedly sought to make land for peace deals with Arab countries and organizations. Those concessions have brought Israel. No friends in the West Bank or Gaza Strip far from it concessions have generally emboldened Israel's enemies. That's exactly what happened in the Gaza Strip. In 2005, Israel pulled out of Gaza in an attempt to stop the costs in blood and treasure associated with policing the area. All Jewish assets in the Gaza Strip were promptly destroyed by Palestinian Arabs. Elections were then held in the Gaza Strip and Hamas was elected to lead the Gaza Strip. They promptly consolidated their control by killing members of the Palestinian authority. They then stole as much international aid as they could to build rockets and terror infrastructure, ignoring the needs of their population entirely.

0 (1m 29s):
And then they launched repeated rocket attacks on Israeli civilians for the last two and a half years or so. As Kamas itself says, the organization attempted to deceive Israel into believing it had been deterred from large scale terrorist action. Then on October 7th, Simha Torah, the happiest state in the Jewish calendar, at least 1,500 Kamas terrorists and many civilian fellow travelers crossed the Israeli border by breaching the border wall around Gaza and killed some 1200 Israel in their beds at a music festival and elsewhere, they raped women, then murdered them or dragged them in captivity back to Gaza. They kidnapped their slaughtered babies. Here is video from the Gaza Strip as members of Hamas arrived back in the Strip with their captives.

0 (2m 12s):
If you can't see this, this is enormous crowds of people cheering and celebrating, excited at the slaughter of civilians in the kidnapping of other civilians

1 (2m 22s):
That go,

0 (2m 23s):
Does this look like a gate? Does this look like a peaceful population, a population seeking peace and coexistence? Look at the excitement, look at the celebration. People screaming afar as hostages are driven away, including the bodies of people being beaten in the streets, Gaza and the West Bank are not filled with moderate Muslims. Far from it, DASA and the West Bank are filled with people who despise the state of Israel and agree wholeheartedly with Hamas' genocidal aims. This is in essence the entire problem. Were these areas filled with moderate Muslims. Israel might find a peace partner. That peace partner does not exist as a new poll from the Arab world for research and development shows, 75% of those polled in the Gaza Strip in West Bank supported the October 7th massacre.

0 (3m 11s):
76% support Hamas, 98% have a negative view of America. 78% believe in the total extermination of Israel altogether. As the old saw goes, if the Palestinians were to put down their arms tomorrow, they would have a state. If Israel were to put down its arms tomorrow, all the Jews would be dead. So if the conflict is that clear cut, why does it seem so complex? The answer is a strategy undertaken by the radical Muslim world. It's far left Allies, some far right Allies and the international media. The strategy is called baffling with bullshit. Here's how it works. First, you construct institutions that mirror your perspective so as to create an echo chamber, for example. You take over or create pseudo human rights organizations dedicated to promoting the anti-Israel point of view.

0 (3m 54s):
Then you trot them out routinely in order to claim that despite all evidence, Israel is the real threat to human rights. So how can you tell which human rights organizations are biased and illegitimate? It's not that hard if you're a human rights organization. Presumably you should have had some pretty strong condemnation of Hamas' assault on Jews, the worst assault since the Holocaust or Hamas' handling of the Gaza Strip, which is terroristic and fascistic. Here is a partial list of those who have been extraordinarily weak in their condemnations of Hamas or who have engaged in full scale moral equivalences with Israel's defensive actions. In Gaza, UNICEF Chief Katherine Russell, amnesty International WHO, chief Tedros Cab ses, the International Committee of the Red Cross, you UN Commissioner on Human Rights, Volgar Turk Un Un Relief and Works Agency, save the Children Doctors Without Borders, you un special report for Francesca Albanese, human Rights Watch, ox Fan, the Open Society Foundations.

0 (4m 44s):
The list of such organizations goes on and on and on, and of course, this sort of attitude is extraordinarily common in the legacy media as we've been detailing for weeks on this program. Now, once you have your mouthpieces, the true magic begins. You begin the baffling. Here's how you do it. You obscure the main story entirely. Instead, you focus in on the details so as to avoid discussing the main story altogether. You try to discredit a single detail from Israel and then you use it to suggest that everything emerging from Israel is false despite the fact that Israel has a robust free press and routinely admits to mistakes and despite the even more obvious fact that Israel's enemies routinely lie, that is lying. In fact is a key part of their strategy.

0 (5m 26s):
Take for example, MSNBC's Medi Hassan a consistently propaganda stick opponent to Israel all the way back to his days at Al Jazeera. Here he was last week, suggesting that because the Israel government's public relations team may have mislabeled a calendar in their expose on Hamas' terror tunnels beneath Als Shifa Hospital, this means that Israel is a totally unreliable source on everything. Here he is.

2 (5m 47s):
I agree with you. We shouldn't blindly believe anything Hamas says, but why should we believe what your government says? Either your military spokesman on Monday pointed to an Arabic document in the basement of a Gaza hospital and claimed it was a guardian list on which every terrorist writes his name, but that was false. It was just a calendar. With the days of the week on it, your colleague in the Prime Minister's office, offi Gendelman, posted behind the scenes footage from a Lebanese short film and claimed it was Palestinians in Gaza faking their own injuries. That tweet is still up a week later. That is endless disinformation from your government. Is it not

0 (6m 18s):
Endless disinformation and misinformation? According to me, Hassan endless. The goal there, of course, is to create an equivalence between Israel's sources of information and Hamas' and to minimize what Alfa was. Remember the thing he's talking about? There is a calendar found in a terror tunnel below Alfa Hospital, and this has been a bugaboo for the media for a long time. They've been claiming that Alfa is not a military site, that it is In fact, a civilian site, and that Israel has no actual military interest in Alfa other than human rights violation. Why do they believe that? Because they just listened to whatever Kamas says and then repeat it, and then when Israel claims differently, they say, well, we just don't know. We just, now here's the thing, of course, PHA was a military site. It was used as such. Here is surveillance footage from the day of the attacks.

0 (7m 1s):
These you'll see are hostages being ushered into the hospital by the terrorists into this amazing hospital that is a Pure medical site, a civilian site. These are hostages who are being ushered into this hospital. One of these hostages, by the way, was an Israeli soldier, a female Israeli soldier who was slightly wounded. They found her body the other day she'd been murdered by Hamas. Here you can see the medical personnel helping to usher these people in these people wearing scrubs, ushering in members of Hamas with hostages. By the way, they drove past a bunch of hospitals to get to sfa. This is not a bunch of medical personnel who are deeply concerned about helping the medical situation of the hostages, who by the way, would've been much better off.

0 (7m 43s):
They'd been left in Israel, which is why when Yaya Swar, the head of Hamas had brain cancer, Israel treated him and then released him. In any case, you can see these are members of the medical personnel at Alfa who are helping Kamas, and then we're lying to the media about it, pretending that it was a Pure medical site. They were all complicit. The International Red Cross knows about this human rights watch knows about this. They all lie. They all know that Hamas is operating from sfa. They worked with them and then they told the media lies about it, and then the media ran with that story. Here are witnesses from SFA whose names cannot be revealed because they will be killed talking about how the base was used as a base by Hamas.

0 (8m 28s):
If the Jews dropped an ABA on Chifa Hospital, it would be a slaughter of global proportions, but they don't do such things. So Kamas says, Kasam fighters enter among us civilians so the Jews can't get to them and nobody can tell on them. When I went to Shifa, I found Kasam fighters all around. That's Kamas next to us, in front of us, behind us, over and under us. Isn't that forbidden in Islam? Isn't that oppression of civilians? Every Palestinian knows Shefa Hospital is full of them, But nobody can talk. Death by the Jews is better than death by ISIS. The night I spent at Shefa I thought would be the last night of my life.

0 (9m 11s):
Judging from the terrible carnage that happened and the shelling around us, I felt it was our day of judgment only we were being judged on account of people who had never protected us. They only protected their families and children whom they brought to safety outside of Gaza or underneath us, God knows where. While everything always fell on us, let me tell you for certain our people will bear poverty, hunger, and thirst As long as Hamas gets out of here from the day they arrived. Have endured catastrophe is what people in Gaza, some of them at least actually think about Hamas, but they'll never say it. And the truth is, and when it comes down to it, this is a minority viewpoint. This is a minority viewpoint, but the big story obviously for many Hassan is whether Israel is disseminating endless misinformation about a calendar on the wall of a terror tunnel, and whether I kept track of terrorist hostage handlers or not, it's not just many Hassan playing the baffling with bull game.

0 (10m 6s):
It's the usual suspects at CNN too. CNN reported over the weekend that the IDF in showing the media the weaponry found at Alfa quote might have rearranged weaponry prior to exposing that weaponry to the media. The implication from CNN is that Israel was falsifying something, which is absurd. Anytime the DEA makes a bust and then shows the drugs on the table, they have rearranged the drugs where Israel to leave all weaponry in place. That would be dangerous given that booby traps have already killed or wounded a high number of Israeli soldiers. We've seen this sort of game laundered into false accusations by pro Kamas forces that real photos of burned babies are In fact AI generated images. The insistence by pro Kamas propagandas that if babies were mostly burned alive rather than beheaded, this somehow means Israel is dishonest and Hamas is its moral equivalent.

0 (10m 52s):
And now most amazingly people are claiming that Hamas didn't even conduct the massacre at all. That is a contention making its way around the internet and the Arabic world, thanks to a report from Hahas, a far left disgrace of an Israeli publication. That story from Haar at states that according to Israeli officials Hamas terrorists initially did not know about the music festival. They ended up devastating that instead, they quote found out about the Nova Festival through drones or from those flying in parachutes and directed terrorists to the location using their comms system. That report also included a single Unsourced police allegation that an IDF HelixPartner targeting terrorists at the site apparently harmed a few partygoers who are in the area. The police have, by the way, denied the report saying the police investigation does not refer to the activity of IDF forces and therefore no indication was given of harm to civilians as a result of aerial activity at the site.

0 (11m 40s):
Nonetheless, that ha's report has now metastasized into the pro Hamas lie that Israel slaughtered its own citizens on mass. The most viral Twitter account on Twitter tweeted yesterday quote, will you condemn Israel? Now given they have admitted to Hahas that Israeli helicopters murdered Israeli civilians on October 7th, yesterday, the Palestinian Authority, this is the supposedly moderate peace partner the Biden administration is pushing, announced that Israeli helicopters had killed all 364 people at the music festival citing the report in Hahas. No surprise there, the leader of the Palestinian Authority, again, a supposed moderate mah debas is a full scale Holocaust denier. The baffling with bull isn't relegated to focusing on details and then blowing them up into entire false narratives.

0 (12m 23s):
It also extends to credence to total liars. That's precisely why the legacy media claims that Israel had bombed a hospital early in the conflict when it was Palestinian Islamic Jihad. Why the legacy media have claimed each and every day that electricity was out at Al Shefa when clearly by contemporaneous footage, it was not that Israel is targeting civilians when it isn't. In fact, as journalist David Collier points out, the media routinely use accounts from open terrorist supporters for their Gaza coverage. Dr. Khaled Abbu Samara, who claimed that Israel was shooting at those waving white flags, posted that quote, history is being made on October 7th, Muhammad Abbu, head of Shifa Hospital who routinely praises terrorists on his social media is also routinely quoted by the press Muir Abors, director General of the Palestinian Health Ministry, who claimed dogs were eating bodies of civilians.

0 (13m 10s):
That guy is literally part of the Hamas government, and there's one other element to baffling with bullshit pretending he had just don't know enough to make a judgment between Israel and its enemies. Who knows what's true and what's not. It's all just too complicated to say. This allows journalists who are supposed to be focused on truth to give equal credence to propagandists and truth tellers both sides. They cry as they host people who openly call for the destruction of the state of Israel and valorize Kamas. It doesn't take much to turn a clear narrative into a muddy one, just some lies. Some laser-like focus on a relevant detail and echo chamber, some shoulder shrugging ignorance when questioned and a lot of radical and fellow travelers to promote all of that bull from these elements.

0 (13m 52s):
Truth can be turned to falsehood and we're watching it happen in real time. In just a second, we'll get to some actual good news from Argentina

Pure Talk (13m 58s):
first. If you're looking for a killer Black Friday deal, I have one for you. It's a free Moto G five G phone from Pure Talk, no gimmicks, no train necessary, just sign up for Pure Talk's, unlimited talk, unlimited text, 15 gigs of data. You can get all of that for just 35 bucks, and you'll get the Moto G five G phone for free. The new Moto Jeep five G Bos, a two day battery life, an exceptional quad pixel camera and a whole lot more. It's a great deal, but you need to move fast because these phones will be sold out by the end of the month. So if your current phone is on the way out, upgrade for free with Pure Talk Pure Talk gives you America's most dependable five G network at half the price. So make the switch today. Just go to Pure Talk dot com slash SHAPIRO, get this exclusive offer, select the plan that's right for your family. That's Pure Talk dot com slash SHAPIRO. Claim that free Moto G five G phone with a qualifying plan. Again, that's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. I've been using Pure Talk for all of my calls for at least a year at this point, and I gotta tell you, the calls are crystal clear. They're excellent, they have a great tower network, and again, I'm saving time, saving money, and most importantly, not supporting a company that hates my guts. Head on over to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Pure Talk is simply smarter wireless Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro.

Balance Of Nature (15m 2s):
Also, you know, one thing that I really hate in life vegetables, they're, they're just, they, they taste bad. They're bad. I, I, you know, there are questions about God's existence. Most of the questions I have censor on why vegetables taste bad, but everything that's bad for you tastes really good. Well, in order to solve that conundrum, that cosmic conundrum, I've relied on balance of nature, fruits and veggies, they're a great way to make sure you're getting essential nutritional ingredients Every single day. Balance of nature uses an advanced cold vacuum process that encapsulates fruits and veggies into whole food supplements without sacrificing their natural antioxidants. The capsules are completely void of additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticides, or added sugar. The only thing imbalance of nature's fruit and veggie capsules are, well, you know, fruits and veggies. There's never been an easier way to make sure you're getting your daily dose of fruits and veggies. Balance of nature actually sent a bunch of fruit and veggie capsules down to the studio for my team to try. Everybody is feeling brighter, healthier, sunnier, more energetic. Go check them out right now. Go to balance of nature.com, use promo code SHAPIRO for 35% off your first order as a preferred customer. That's balance of nature.com promo code Shapiro. Get 35% off your first preferred order. I rely on them. You can do the same. Go to balance of nature.com. You use promo code Shapiro.

0 (16m 7s):
Okay, so in actual good news last night, Argentina shocked the world by electing a libertarian outsider named Javier Mele. Now, Mele is by far the most entertaining person in the world. I mean, like in on the planet, Javier, this guy is wildly entertaining, not only because he happens to be extremely conservative and we say he is libertarian, not an abortion, he ain't, he's a full scale proponent of the pro-life position, for example. He also does not happen to be particularly libertarian on certain forms of drug use, for example. So the, the description of him as a libertarian is not quite right. He's actually just a classical liberal with very conservative undertones in terms of religion and the importance of culture.

0 (16m 49s):
He's great in other words. So he won a huge victory yesterday in Argentina's presidential election, vowing to halt decades of economic decline in a country reeling from triple digit inflation. Inflation right now is at 143%, which means that pretty much every day everything gets more expensive and that becomes a spiral. This is according to the AFP with 55.7% of the vote. Melay thumped, his rival economy minister Sergio Masa, who won 44% of the vote in rapidly conceded defeat Melee said in his victory speech quote, today begins the reconstruction of Argentina. Today begins the end of Argentina's decline. The model of decadence has come to an end. There is no way back. Latin America's third biggest economy has suffered decades of crises under interventionist.

0 (17m 30s):
Governments big on welfare that resort to printing money, to finance, spending, fueling inflation while borrowing heavily only to default on their debt. Access to dollars is strictly controlled, leading to a thriving black market. For greenbacks analysts warned the peso is ripe for a sharp devaluation. So despite all the inflation that's been taking place, actually the peso is still worth too much money because you can't trade it for US dollars. If you could trade it for US dollars, that means the peso is worth even less money. Mila's main platform has been a plan to ditch the peso for the US dollar and dynamite, the central bank to do away with the cancer of inflation. Now the problem is they don't have enough dollars to inject into the economy right away, so in order to really do that, they're gonna have to reestablish credit worthiness. They're probably gonna have to borrow, borrow a bunch of new money from the IMF, from the International Monetary Fund.

0 (18m 13s):
However, melee is just the guy to do this sort of stuff. He's incredibly bold. He also has suggested that he wants to cut ties on a governmental level with Brazil and China saying he would not do business with communists. Now it's gonna be rough on a, on an interpersonal and and business level to do that sort of thing, and he's found that he's not going to do that. However, he's very much oriented toward the west, which means that the, the press hate him, that that's the way that this works. If you're Ira Bolsonaro and you're very oriented toward the west, you like the United States, for example, you like Israel, you like Europe, that means that you're super bad. If you're Lula de Silva who is an actual tyrant in Brazil and who loves Russia and who loves China and who loves Iran, then you're good.

0 (18m 56s):
According to the international press, again, the media, the international media are a gar. They're a smoking garbage heap or run by activists from the left, which is why they hate Javier mle. We're gonna bring you more on Javier MLE in a second because this dude is just spectacular. I, I gotta say Javier mle, he's great, he's great. We'll get to that in one second.

Legacybox (19m 13s):
First, think about the memories you are going to make during these holidays with those you love those moments around the dinner table. Flag football out in the yard or a five K Turkey trott early in the morning. Now imagine being able to relive those holidays passed with your own family recording A lifetime of memories used to be commitment. Camcorders cost thousands of dollars. Tapes were expensive, cameras required film and development. A Legacybox exists to preserve your family's recorded moments, digitally, ensuring their safety forever out in your garage. You got a bunch of old film reels. Do you have a film projector? They've been preserving that stuff, not really, it's just sitting out there and it's getting all moldy and bugs are getting into it and stuff. Instead, send it to Legacybox and preserve it forever. Legacybox is a simple, safe solution for digitizing all your memories by going to Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro. You can enjoy 40% off when you get started with Legacybox today. The process is super simple. I've done it multiple times, done it for my parents, I've done it for my in-laws, done it for it myself. You send in your Legacybox filled with old VHSs tapes, camcorder tapes, pictures, their team digitizes, everything by hand right here in the United States. You'll get it back on the cloud or thumb drive, along with your originals. Legacybox digitizes over 15 different types of analog media. So whether it's VHS tapes, super eight millimeter film reels or photo negatives they have you covered, it's a fantastic holiday gift. Legacybox is Black Friday event is here. They're giving our listeners their best deal of the year. Visit Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro, save an unreal 65% with limited quantities ready to ship. This deal's gonna go super fast. Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro for 65% off. Again, that's Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro. Go check them out right now.

0 (20m 34s):
Okay, so I wanna play some clips of Javier MLE because he's wildly entertaining. So I'm gonna translate, not that I speak Spanish, but the translations are available. So here is Javier Mele recently in an interview about the left, and man, this is just, he's the most memorable person alive,

4 (20m 55s):
Says

0 (20m 55s):
You can't give left lefts an inch. Can you define leftist is all collectivists, all kinds of collectors.

4 (21m 4s):
But why

0 (21m 4s):
Do you call them? She asks

4 (21m 6s):
Because they

0 (21m 6s):
Are shit. If you think differently from them, she says, he says they will kill you. This is the

4 (21m 14s):
Point. You

0 (21m 15s):
Can't give leftists an

4 (21m 16s):
Inch.

0 (21m 18s):
If you give them an inch, they'll use it to destroy you. You can't negotiate with left hard, you don't negotiate with trash because they will end you. Okay? So that that is, that is who just got elected. The president of Argentina, again, very much oriented toward the United States. Here he was talking about his agenda. This one is a little bit less colorful,

4 (21m 40s):
Fundamental,

0 (21m 43s):
Our fundamental axes and our free trade

4 (21m 44s):
Piece,

0 (21m 46s):
Freedom and aligning ourselves with

4 (21m 47s):
The West, we're

0 (21m 49s):
The highest references in this for us are the United States and Israel. And as for China, ask Bloomberg News, is it one of the main trading partners as well? They will be business partners

4 (21m 59s):
Of

0 (21m 59s):
The private sector. We do not make a pact with communists. But then what would you do? In other words, would it not close Argentina's relations with China? He says, I would not promote relations with communists nor Cuba, nor Venezuela, north, North Korea nor Nicaragua, north China. Oh

4 (22m 17s):
Yeah,

0 (22m 18s):
And says over Venezuela, you're changing policies obviously. Love it, love it. And by the way, it's gonna be a test of the Biden administration as to what they do with this guy because if they do not immediately bring melee and Argentina into the fold, it's proof positive that this administration does not give a damn about ProAm America sentiments in Latin and South America. This guy is begging for Argentina to make great friends with the United States. If Biden somehow rejects that on behalf of the international leftism, it demonstrates full scale the impact of a foreign policy rooted in leftist nonsense. Meanwhile, here's Melay on Dollarization. That of course would be the transfer away from the absolutely worthless Argentinian peso and toward the American dollar.

5 (23m 3s):
I think there's a previous discussion about dollarization actually, strictly speaking, it's to get rid of the central bank, the dollarization is an instrumental issue. At the end of the day, there are four argumentative axes. One has to do with a moral issue, which is that stealing is wrong and Senior Ridge is nothing more or less than a swindle by politicians against good people. Therefore, let's say if we consider that stealing is wrong, one of the greatest thieves in the history of mankind is the central bank. The second point has to do with a technical issue because in the Argentine case, it is more evident when a product has no demand, its price is zero. So if the local currency has no demand and its price should be zero, the equilibrium real balances are zero.

5 (23m 47s):
Whatever amount of money a central bank wishes to impose the counterpart is that the price level is infinite demand and its price should be zero equilibrium, real balances are zero. Whatever amount of money a central bank wants to impose. The flip side is that the price level has infinity.

0 (24m 6s):
Okay, this is correct. What he's saying is you can't just pump money into the economy and then pretend that the money is worth anything. It isn't. He's staunchly anti-abortion. He favors lucr gun laws. He has criticized Pope Francis in the most colorful of terms, he makes me look like a piker in that particular department. He used to carry around a chainsaw in a symbol of his planets to the government, which is just the best. Is just the best. And again, here, here's maybe my favorite melee video. There are a bunch of them that are just spectacular and, and if you've never seen a picture of melee, he looks like dorky wolverine. It's, it's amazing. He's got like the big hair and he's got mutton shops and he's famously suggested that he's not cut his hair since high school. He's a, he's a very kind of Trumpy character in, in his own personal life.

0 (24m 48s):
He's, he used to talk pretty openly about being like a time trick sex guru and all the rest of this kinda stuff. It's, it's hysterical stuff. This is the, the video that probably of him has gone the most viral. And for those who can't see, he's standing next to a whiteboard with taped up on the whiteboard are the names of the various ministries in Argentina. And he's just going through and ripping them down and saying that he's gonna throw them out. Here we go, Ministry of Sports and Tourism Out, ministry of Culture, ministry of the Environment and Sustainable Development, ministry of Women, genders and Diversity, ministry of Public Works.

0 (25m 28s):
Even if you resist stuck to the Board, ministry of Science Technology and Innovation, ministry of Labor, employment and Social Security, ministry of Education, indoctrination out, ministry of Transport, out Ministry of Health, ministry of Social Development

6 (25m 44s):
Out

0 (25m 46s):
The theory of politics is over Long lived damn liberty. Ah, ah, he's great. Now the reality is that he can do this so people in America can serve as like, why can't we do this here? And the answer is 'cause we don't have 143% inflation. The reason that he's able to say the truth about government spending is because it has reached such an exorbitant and insane proportion that they've bankrupted the country no less than three times. They've defaulted on their debts repeatedly, which means it's impossible to raise new debt when you keep defaulting on your debt. Nobody wants to lend you money in the future. Right? Now the big question is how they're gonna pay back the IMF. The IMF has like a $43 billion loan out to Argentina right now. In order for Argentina to get back on some sort of decent track, they are gonna have to take some new debt.

0 (26m 31s):
The guarantee of that debt is gonna be MEE's ability and willingness to cut future government spending. And this means dumping the garbage philosophy of Peronism. Now, the reason that Peronism is so important for people to understand is because Peronism is almost identical with the kind of economic policy that has been pursued by the left wing in the United States. Peronism is not communism, Peronism is not quite socialism, it's really more economic corporatism. It's the sort of thing you're seeing China pursue right now or that you saw, for example, Nazi Germany pursue it is state-led enterprise. So the basic idea is sure there'll still be private businesses, but we will give them subsidies. We'll tell 'em how to do their business. We will we'll protect a few core businesses and business sectors and we'll fund them.

0 (27m 12s):
All of our friends will get super duper rich. And if this sounds a lot like the Democratic Party policy on economics and part of the Republican Party policy on economics, frankly that's because it is. It turns out that whether you are right or whether you are left subsidies to political friends in order to protect particular industries, not core national security industries, but just industries that you think are special to protect certain segments of the population. It turns out they bankrupt the country. If you go back to the originalists, to the original Peronist philosophy of Juan Perone, who was the left-leaning Argentinian who ran Argentina until his wife took over and then they wrote a musical about her with Madonna and all the rest of it.

0 (27m 53s):
Perus philosophy is dominated Argentina for literally decades. And if you go back and you actually look at the principles of Peronism, they sound very much like the modern Democratic party quote. A true democracy is that in which the government does what the people want and defends only one interest. The peoples Peronism is essentially of the common people. Any political elite is anti-people and thus not ISTs, right? It's the populist left wing movement. AIST works for the movement. Whoever in the name of Peronism serves an elite or a leader is a peronist in name only for Peronism. There's only one class of person and those who work working as a right that creates the dignity of men. It's a duty because it's fair that everyone should produce as much as they consume at the very least. And then Peronism talks about how essentially you need to balance the right of the individual and society as an economic doctrine, a social market putting capital to the service of the economy and the wellbeing of the people.

0 (28m 44s):
Anybody who you've heard by the way right or left, talk about the idea that capitalism is really a tool, right? That the markets ought to work for the people not the other way around. That philosophy is in essence a peroneous philosophy. It's not the job of quote unquote markets to work for that markets are not an instruments of the government. Markets are a description of relations between human beings. Markets are a description of how people trade with one another and under what conditions suggesting that the markets to work for the people is a Sian way of describing a vague general will and then directing government power at achieving that supposed general will. And what it ends up with is massive amounts of debt in, in reality it amounts to tremendous economic inefficiency, redistribution of resources, tremendous economic controls on industry and as always, huge debt.

0 (29m 34s):
Back in October, Reuters reported on the the problems for Argentina and they pointed out that the $600 billion economy has been engulfed by a deep crisis that involves runway inflation, a dearth of US dollar reserves and an electorate with little trust in its currency. The country could be in danger of defaulting on that $43 billion program with the International Monetary Fund that would actually be Argentina defaulting on its debt, not for the third time in the last couple decades, but for the 10th time overall, the government keeps on spending and spending and spending. They keep on just blowing out the debt. The the ballooning debt pile is enormous. I mean right now the total outstanding government debt as of like 2023 is about $400 billion and it's rising rapidly.

0 (30m 25s):
So Melee is gonna have his work cut out for him since 1980. They've been spending like drunken sailors, they've been monetizing that debt by simply issuing more pestos and then they've been defaulting on that debt and now Melee is gonna come, ha have to come in with that chainsaw. He's really not gonna have a choice but to do that and watch as the left kicks and screams in the United States also because they see what's coming. They see what's coming. The reality is that once you hit the situation that Argentina has now hit, you don't have a choice but to go for the chainsaw. So best of luck to Javier Melay. And again, the West ought to be embracing this guy. It is. It is an incredible judgment on the media and now on the West that many of them are more comfortable with Lula de Silva in Brazil than they are with with Javier Mele an open ally of the United States who is desperately seeking a better relationship with the United States.

0 (31m 11s):
The fact the media find it easier to sympathize with Lula tells you everything you need to know about the media and our modern left wing political leadership. Mila is precisely the kind of leader that Ronald Reagan was begging for during his presidency. A democratically elected classical liberal who is seeking economic openness and freedom and to pay back the country's debts. And the media are like, I don't know, this guy seems kind of crazy. This guy seems too wa too. You're hearing him describe as an an Arco capitalist as a far right character. I noticed that Argentina has 143% inflation because of the program you guys like. So now it's time to try something different. So good on Argentinians for realizing that by the way, he's boosted to power by young people so far to talk about how young people have lost it again, young people are fat and happy when the country is fat and happy.

0 (31m 56s):
You can afford, leftism is a luxury good. You can afford leftism when your country is fat and happy. And when the rubber meets the road, reality tends to intrude rather strongly. Okay, in just one second, Elon. Musk is now going to war with media matters and I am here for it. We'll get to that momentarily

Helix (32m 9s):
first. Sleep. Hard to come by these dates. Very stressful. World lot going on. You're getting ready for Thanksgiving, you're getting ready for Christmas. Well, if you need a better sleep quality and I'm sure you do, why not Get the best Christmas gift in the world, best Black Friday gift and get yourself the gift of a mattress made just for you. That's Helix Mattress. I've had Helix for, I don't know, a decade at this point. It's the gift that keeps on giving. Every night when I get into bed, I'm reminded of how excellent they are. Helix is now introducing their newest, most high-end collection. The Helix Elite, Helix Elite harnesses years of extensive mattress expertise to offer a truly elevated sleep experience. The Helix Elite Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for specific sleep positions and firmness preferences. Go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben, check out the new collection today. If you're nervous about buying a mattress online, well you don't have to be. Helix has a sleep quiz. It matches your body type and sleep preferences to the perfect mattress because why would you buy a mattress made for somebody else? I took that Helix quiz. I was matched with a firm but breathable mattress. It really is excellent. The thing keeping me alive right now, Helix is offering 25% off all mattress orders plus two free Pillows. For our listeners in honor of Black Friday, go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. Use code Helix partner 25. This is their best offer, yet it's not gonna last long with Helix. Better Sleep starts right now.

0 (33m 16s):
Also with the release of our Daily Wire Black Friday Shopping guide packed with the best deals of the year, like 50% off Daily Wire plus memberships. You'd think our surprises for Black Friday have already been revealed, but you are wrong. We have so many more massive surprises in store for this week. The first is what I'm especially excited about. Behold, here it is. The first ever Ben Shapiro performance Polo. Look at this. The fabric is wrinkle resistant. It's got quick dry technology. You can wear it absolutely anywhere. This Polo doesn't care about your feelings or your golf score. It's the perfect gift for the men on your Black Friday list. And by men I mean men who are actual biological men. It also has some special features.

0 (33m 56s):
So not only is it a great publisher, but see here we have The Daily Wire logo. Here we have. And then on the inside, just for you, the greatest signature of all signatures there it is the signature that goes out on hundreds of paychecks each, each, not technically, but kind of. It's the perfect gift for everyone. See all the best deals of the year inside The Daily, Wire Shopping guide now at Daily Wire dot com slash Black Friday. Okay, meanwhile, Elon Musk is now at war with a huge swath of the left that includes, of course, the Anti-Defamation League. That's been true for a long time. But now with Media Matters, media Matters for those who don't know, was a group that was founded by Hillary Clinton's close advisor at David Brock. It was specifically designed at the time to be an anti right-wing messaging machine, designed to rob any sort of right-wing outlet of advertisers and profits.

0 (34m 42s):
That is what it was designed to do. It's been very effective in that goal and and they've been going after Elon, Musk, hammer and Tonging. They've been particularly ratcheting things up over the course of the last few months because Elon is so active on Twitter. And as we talked about a little bit last week, Elon embroiled himself in a controversy because again, he's very active on Twitter and he sort of retweeted and restated another tweet from somebody that many people then accused of being antisemitic. And then he obviously clarified. He said, listen, I'm talking about the ADL, I'm talking about left-wing Jews who have been very big on open borders and then suddenly are very big on not open borders. The minute that it turns out a lot of the people got imported hate Jews. And he obviously was not talking about the entire Jewish community or all Jews or anything remotely like that.

0 (35m 23s):
That is not who Elon is. I mean, I know Elon just a little bit, but the implication that Elon is antisemitic, like the implication that Donald Trump is antisemitic. I find it very weird that many of the people who are jumping on that bandwagon, people like media matters are very soft on actual Hamas fans. Like if you're a fan of Hamas, if you're, if you're a person who's from the river to the sea, Rashida Taleb places like Media Matters will defend you. If, if you are a person who actively promotes terrorist entities, who actively sides with those terrorists, if you're Linda Sarsour or something, then media matter's. Like you're, you're the best man, you're great. But if you're Elon Musk, then all of a sudden the, so what that says to me is ulterior motive. They hate Elon Musk 'cause Elon Musk just does not mirror the woke priorities of the left.

0 (36m 6s):
So what we saw last week was yet another attempt to unperson Elon Musk, which is not going to work because he's incredibly rich and he's incredibly famous and he's incredibly valuable to a, a wide variety of human beings ranging from Tesla owners to the federal government with regard to SpaceX. And so now they've been attempting to undercut him with advertisers on Twitter now known as X. And so Elon is now pushing back on all of that. He's pushing back on all that in a few different ways. First of all, again, the, the implication that Elon Musk is an antisemite is to me quite absurd based on the rec, based on the record that is currently available. And he, he literally tweeted out just three days ago, quote, as I said earlier this week, decolonization from the river to the sea and similar euphemisms necessarily imply genocide.

0 (36m 52s):
Clear calls for extreme violence are against our terms of service and will result in suspension. And that seems like a lot more proje than a huge majority of the people on the left who are ripping on on Elon Musk. Well now he has said that he's going to go nuclear on media matters according to Politico. Musk said on Saturday, he will file a thermonuclear lawsuit against nonprofit Watchdog Media matters and others as companies including Disney. Apple and IBM reportedly have paused advertising on X amid an antisemitism storm around the social media platform. Again, Disney, apple, IBM, they'll continue to advertise on M-S-N-B-C, which does cover for Kamas on a daily basis. Presumably Media Matters. A US group that describes itself as a progressive research and information sensor published earlier this week, research showing that X had posted ads appearing next to neo-Nazi posts.

0 (37m 40s):
Ex CEO, Linda Yao previously said, brands are now protected from the risk of being next to potentially toxic content on the platform. But Musk said the split second court opens on Monday, X Corp will be filing a thermonuclear lawsuit against me in Media Matters and all those who colluded in this fraudulent attack on our company, he posted a statement with the headline, stand with X to Protect Free Speech. And here's what he said, quote, this week, media Matters for America posted a story that completely misrepresented the real user experience on X in another attempt to undermine freedom of speech and mislead advertisers above everything, including Profit X works to protect the public's right to free speech. But for speech to be truly free, we must also have the freedom to see or hear things that some people may consider objectionable. We believe that everyone has the right to make up their own minds about what to read, watch, or listen to, because that's the power of freedom of speech.

0 (38m 23s):
Despite our clear and consistent position accessing a number of attacks from activist groups like Media matters and legacy media outlets who seek to undermine freedom of expression on our platform because they perceive it as a threat to their ideological narrative and those of their financial supporters. This, this of course is 100% true. It's why you see Kara Swisher spending every waking moment of her life going after Elon Musk, going after it was Mark Zuckerberg before any social media platform that does not mirror the priorities of Kara Swisher becomes a bad social media network that must be hit with advertiser boycotts. Here are the facts on media matters. Research is what Elon says to manipulate the public and advertisers media matters created an alternate account and curated the post in advertising, appearing on the account's timeline to misinform advertisers about the placement of their posts.

0 (39m 5s):
These contrived experiences could be applied to any platform. So in other words, media matters created a false account. Then they proceeded to algorithmically figure out which tweets would be the most likely to appear in their Twitter feed if they kept accessing pro-Nazi tweets. And then when ads were served to them, they then screen capped that once they curated their feed, he says they repeatedly refreshed their timelines to find a rare instance of ads serving next to the content they chose to follow. Our logs indicate they forced a scenario resulting in 13 times the number of ads served compares the median ads served to an XUS of the 5.5 billion ad impressions on X that day, less than 50 total ad impressions were served against all of the organic content featured in the Media Matters article, which is an insane rate of success if you're hoping to prohibit advertising content from appearing next to really disgusting posts.

0 (39m 49s):
For one brand showcasing the article, one of its ads ran adjacent to a post two times. That ad was seen in that setting by only two users, one of which was the author of the Media Matters article for another brand showcased in the article. Two of the ads served adjacent to two posts three times. That ad was only seen in that setting by one user, the author of the Media Matters article. In other words, they totally created an account just to manufacture a story that this is a thing that is happening all over Twitter when In fact it's happening. Because media matters basically game the system to achieve an end where they can then say to advertisers that if you're Honda, you're at risk of appearing next to a neo-Nazi Post Media Matters article highlights nine posts they believe should not be allowed on X. Upon evaluation, only one of the nine organic posts featured in the article violated our content policies. We take an action on it under our freedom of speech not reach enforcement approach.

0 (40m 31s):
So here's the summary. X will protect the public's rights. Free expression will not allow agenda-driven activists or even our own profits to deter our vision. Everyone has a choice on X user and brand control on X is superior to a year ago and data wins over allegations. Media matters does not reflect the user experience on X. So he's now filing this lawsuit against media matters, presumably for what he's going to accuse them of is, is some, some form of fraud, some legal form of fraud in an attempt to artificially interfere with business contract. A tortious interference with with contract would probably be the, the basis of the lawsuit here. And this is part and parcel, a broader attempt to de platform Musk from his own platform. This is why they were so angry when Twitter got taken away from Jack Dorsey when Musk bought Twitter at the expense of like $20 billion that is just down the toilet.

0 (41m 17s):
I mean the, the Twitter is now worth maybe half of what it was when Musk bought it at the then going price. They're now attempting to essentially destroy Musk over all of this by claiming falsely that he's an antisemite. And again, you, you have to consider the source, you have to consider the source when you see people on MSN BBC who are hot and bothered over Elon Musk's supposed antisemitism and in the very next segment they're having on some wild anti-Israel prognosticator accusing Israel of genocide and war crimes and making excuses for Hamas. You have to wonder what is the real agenda there. It doesn't feel like the real agenda has anything to do with Jew hatred per se. Okay, in just one second, we'll get to the actual latest news in Israel.

0 (42m 1s):
The Houthis are ramping up their attacks from Yemen because again, Iran is making all sorts of trouble in the region.

ZipRecruiter (42m 5s):
First, with Thanksgiving just a few days away, I wanna show some gratitude for some of the people on my team, Justin, who makes sure that the show is top quality savvy, who informs me of all the latest gossip, all the T as we like to say, Jake, for keeping me up to date on sports and speaking occasional American accented Hebrew with me, Zach, for always laughing at my jokes and taking super awkward pictures and and also informing me of the latest in the Star Wars universe. Kelly, for being the world's best assistant, considering she literally has to tell me I'm not kidding, when to take out the trash and when to pick up my kids. And Fabi of course for being an amazing makeup artist and also being literally willing to kill on my behalf. It takes an amazing team of people to make this show successful. Just like it takes an amazing team to make any business successful. We found a lot of these people on ZipRecruiter and you can too. If you're hiring, you need to find the best people for your team. You need ZipRecruiter right now. You can try it for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. ZipRecruiter uses smart technology to scan thousands of resumes to find the most qualified people for your job. ZipRecruiter lets the most qualified people know they're a great match and encourages them to apply. ZipRecruiter is trusted by millions In fact. Over 3.8 million businesses have come to ZipRecruiter for their hiring needs. See for yourself why so many business owners and hiring managers are thankful for ZipRecruiter four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter get a quality candidate within day one. I'd be super grateful if you could go to this exclusive web address right now and Try ZipRecruiter for FREE ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Again, that's ZipRecruiter dot com slash D-A-I-L-Y-W-I-R-E. ZipRecruiter is indeed the smartest way to hire.

0 (43m 29s):
Well, meanwhile, the media continued to be really, really terrible at their jobs. This particularly true on Israel, of course, they claimed yesterday it was the biggest headline of the day that Israel was about to strike some sort of ceasefire deal with Hamas in the Gaza Strip. Then they had to walk that back 'cause it was denied by both Israel and the United States. It turned out not to be true, this giant pause. Now the Biden administration is trying to push the idea that they're getting closer to a deal, but they really shouldn't be talking about anything if a deal is about to happen. Why exactly are you talking about any of that publicly? John Finer, who is the Deputy National Security Advisor, he was saying on national TV they're getting closer to a deal. What does that even look like? Why is he talking about that? Like this is not how negotiations typically work.

7 (44m 7s):
What is the state of negotiations as of this morning? Is there a deal imminent?

8 (44m 14s):
Thanks, Jake. So I think you heard probably the Prime Minister of Cutter speak to this earlier today. They have been extremely close obviously, to these negotiations. As we, as we have, the United States has been following this minute by minute, hour by hour up to the level of the president for whom this is a, a major overriding priority. Obviously, in part because there are a number of Americans who are in this horrific situation. What I can say about this at this time is we think that we are closer than we have been perhaps at any point since these negotiations began weeks ago, that there are areas of difference in disagreement that have been narrowed, if not closed out entirely.

0 (44m 53s):
Okay, so why is he talking about that publicly? Nobody really, really knows. Meanwhile, the Israeli ambassador to the United States, Michaelle Herzo is like, we're not doing a ceasefire. Why would we do a ceasefire when we are literally attempting to track down our hostages in real time? And again, tape was released yesterday of the hostages being dragged into SFA Hospital. The tape is absolutely sickening. We showed it earlier on the show, and the fact that there's still people in the international media who believe that Israel has some sort of responsibility to Hamas under these circumstances is insane, absurd, and disgusting.

9 (45m 23s):
Prime Minister Netanyahu said a pause in combat is exactly what Hamas wants so they can regroup.

10 (45m 29s):
So I want to distinguish within a pause for a few days in order to get hostages released and a ceasefire prime Minister was referring to a cease fire. We are against ceasefire because that would allow Hamas to retain power to regroup, to re-arm and strike again.

9 (45m 47s):
But it would be a ceasefire for a few days.

10 (45m 50s):
This is, is

9 (45m 51s):
That the

10 (45m 51s):
Difference? We, we are talking about posing the fighting for a few days so we can get the hostages out. But all sides it's, it's not a ceasefire because we will continue to push against Hamas to dismantle their military infrastructure and the terror infrastructure. We are not gonna stop that.

0 (46m 9s):
Meanwhile, Iranian Abba, who these in Yemen, have now seized a ship in the Red Sea. This stuff is really dangerous because when you start endangering the, the world's choke points in terms of trade, that is a major problem. It led to the Suez Canal crisis of 1956. For example. The Straits of Horus are another example of a place where oil ships out. And if the Iranians were to make serious trouble over there, that'd be a real problem for the world economy. Folks who are isolationists on foreign policy seem to forget that there, there is In fact a globe. And on that globe there are certain choke points in terms of trade. And when those choke points get owned by nefarious powers, their prices at the grocery store go up. Their jobs may go away, inflation hits. We have a very interconnected world economy and the simple fact is that it does make a very large difference to you exactly who owns those choke points and how those choke points get run.

0 (46m 55s):
So yesterday a cargo ship partially owned by an Israeli business person, was hijacked by Yemen's Hhy Rebels in the Red Sea. On Sunday, the cargo ship, The Bahamas flagged Galaxy leader, was leased from a British company partially owned by an Israeli named Dur, Rami Ungar to a Japanese company. The ship left a port in Turkey, was headed for India. It was selling under the Bahamian flag. There are apparently 25 crew members of different nationalities, including Ukrainians, Bulgarian, Filipinos, and Mexicans. There are no Israel on board, no crew members were injured, but it did receive minor damage. The Prime Minister's office condemned the seizure, highlighting the ship was not Israeli or owned by Israel. The Houthis have been attempting, obviously, to attack the water surrounding, surrounding the Persian Gulf.

0 (47m 37s):
They've been attempting to create naval problems in these areas. That is Iran, that is obviously Iran. Now all of this is contributing to a larger sense of Democratic panic. Why? Well, because the media are pushing this idea that unless Joe Biden swivels and becomes wildly anti-Israel that he's going to lose the next election. I'd love to see the data that support the idea that if he swivels on behalf of Hamas, that suddenly he's going to win the election. Joe Biden is unpopular because Joe Biden is deeply unpopular. Brand new polling out yesterday shows that Joe Biden's approval rating is down to 40% strong majorities of all voters disapprove of his handling of foreign policy. Now it does say that they also disapprove his handling of the Israel Kamas war But what's weird about that particular question is that that means a bunch of people who are on the right mean people who love Israel.

0 (48m 21s):
Very often, a lot of those people disapprove of his handling of the Israel Hamas war. So, but, but they do so from the right. So in other words, to suggest that everybody is mad at Biden because he's too pro-ISIS Israel is to ignore the reality, which is that by the same poll of all entities in the poll, ranging from Israel to Hamas, to Donald Trump, to Joe Biden, to the Republicans in Congress, the single most popular entity in the poll was actually the state of Israel. So it'd be very weird for, for example, Joe Biden to sort of abandon Israel in the face of all of that. Again, by the same poll that is showing Joe Biden unpopular, it shows that Israel has a plus 23 rating. Ukraine still has a plus 21 rating, and then he gets to the politicians, Nikki Haley's at minus four.

0 (49m 5s):
Mike Johnson's at minus nine. Donald Trump's at minus 16. Joe Biden's at minus 17. Palestine is at minus 18. Russia is at minus 74, and Hamas is at minus 80. So, if the implication there is that Joe Biden is supposed to swivel on behalf of Hamas, I'm not sure exactly how you make that case, particularly, this is something that Nate Silver, the, the pollster has pointed out. Nonetheless, Joe Biden is seeking to start to militate between two positions. This, for example, is why President Biden has now said that he's going to issue visa bans on quote unquote Israeli extremists attacking Palestinians in the West Bank. Unclear exactly who he's talking about. Obviously, no criminals should enter the United States. So if somebody is committing a criminal act, Jew or not Jew, they should not be entering the United States, period, end of story.

0 (49m 47s):
But the idea that there is like this vast criminal underclass in the West Bank that is pursuing extraordinary acts of violence, is not actually told out by the data. There are some people who are doing that and they should be arrested. The, the notion this is anywhere on par with a, a massive problem. There are hundreds of thou, 10,000, 8,800 people who are attempting to immigrate from Israel to the United States after conducting criminal activities against Arabs in the West Bank. Like those numbers don't exist. It, it, it's, it's a very weird take and it's mostly directed toward public consumption at this point. Meanwhile, you can tell that the, the, the Democrats are deeply fearful of Biden.

0 (50m 29s):
He's celebrating his 81st birthday. He clearly is not with it anymore. You can tell this because SNL is finally turning on Joe Biden, which is shocking, right? When, when SNL turns on Joe Biden, he's got a real problem because SNL, they have been massaging Biden, they've been massaging the Democrats, literally for the LA basically since 2008, since Barack Obama became president. They've made it their permanent full-time job to massage Democrats. Now they're finally starting to knock Biden. That's it. That is bad news for him. Obviously

11 (50m 56s):
It's me, your old boy, Joe. Now let's get started to keep things on the rails. I'm gonna read from the teleprompter all great meeting with President Roman numeral 11, excuse me, president Xi. This meeting was a total win. Sure, we made agreements about communications, fentanyl, climate change, but most importantly, we got the thing America really needs right now. More pandas. Alright, I'd like to open up to questions. First up, wall Street Journal.

12 (51m 36s):
Thank you, Mr. President. China relations broke off this past year, partly because you called President Xi a dictator.

11 (51m 42s):
Yeah, that's right.

12 (51m 44s):
But your summit last week saw remarkable strides in mending that relationship. Would you like to completely undo your accomplishment by calling him a dictator again?

11 (51m 53s):
I would. All right. Next question LA Times.

13 (51m 57s):
Thank you, Mr. President, and congratulations on your historic and productive summit. I have a question. You're old.

11 (52m 6s):
Okay. All right. I'm not sure how that's a question, but I mean, man, why can't we talk about things that are going well, like the economy, we outpaced China for the first time in 40 years, or how I created the most jobs since FDR. All right, go ahead. Washington Post, ask away. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you about the handling of the border crisis. Oh, good. Yay. All right. The border. All right, I gotta gotta get something. Lemme take the elevator real quick. Just one sec. Sorry.

0 (52m 43s):
So, again, now that they're starting to mock him, it's pretty obvious that a lot of the Democratic bases unhappy with Joe Biden. The problem is ain't got anybody else lined up. Alright guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be joined on the line by Axel Kaiser, who's an expert on Latin and South America. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro at checkout for two months, free and I annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.