Instagram (0s):
Parents should have a say in which apps are right for their teens. That's why Instagram wants to work with Congress to require parental approval wherever teens under 16 download apps. Learn more at instagram.com/parental approval.

ExpressVPN (16s):
The Bench Bureau show is sponsored by ExpressVPN. Privacy is a right, not a privilege. Defend your right at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

Lady Ballers (22s):
For all of you loyal Ben Shapiro, show listeners and viewers. No, I did not get new intro music. That is the new music from the Soundtrack of the number one movie in America. Lady Ballers, that's our movie. Listen to all that music now on Spotify, apple Music, Pantora or wherever you enjoy your music, and of course, Watch Lady Ballers exclusively on DailyWire Plus

1 (42s):
on Thursday night, news broke that Joe Biden's 53-year-old son, a son the media routinely referred to as a child simply in need of love and protection from his daddy. Hunter was indicted on nine tax Charges in California including three felonies according to the Associated Press. The charges are quote, censored on at least $1.4 million in taxes Hunter Biden owed between 2016 and 2019, a period where he has acknowledged struggling with addiction. Again, that's the associated press, noting that Hunter should basically be let off the hook for not paying millions in dollars of taxes. You know, because he liked the drugs. But as the indictment points out, Hunter's tax failures post-date, his addiction issues as though anyone else could claim that their addiction was responsible for their failure to pay their taxes.

1 (1m 26s):
Prosecutors know, quote notably in 2020, well after Hunter had regained his sobriety and when he finally filed his outstanding 20 16, 20 17 and 2018 forms 10 40, the indictment says the defendant did not direct any payments toward his tax liabilities for each of those years. Prosecutors say that Hunter subverted quote, the payroll and tax withholding process of his own company by withdrawing millions outside of the payroll and tax withholding process, the maximum sentence for Biden's alleged crimes. 17 years in prison. Defense attorney Abby Lowell blamed special prosecutor David Weiss. He said that he was caving to Republican pressure to prosecute Lowell said, quote, based on the facts and the law, if Hunter's last name was anything other than Biden the charges in Delaware and now California would not have been brought.

1 (2m 7s):
Well, frankly, if Hunter's last name was anything other than Biden, he would be a poor derelict and he would be in jail long ago. He never would've made this money. All the money is because his last name is Biden and then his immunity is because his last name is Biden. If his name were Hunter Smith, he'd already have been in jail for drug charges, tax charges, sex trafficking charges, violation of the Foreign Agents Registration Act. in fact, special counsel David Weiss only brought this prosecution after one of the most botched plea deals of all time in which the Department of Justice run by Hunter's. Daddy tried to dismiss hunter's tax charges by attaching them quietly to his gun charge, plea a plea that left him with no jail time. The whole purpose was to stymie any investigation into Hunter's financial relationship with Joe.

1 (2m 50s):
When the judge in that case noticed the sneaky tactic, the judge blew up the deal because when it was publicized, even the Department of Justice was forced to walk away from its own deal. None of that would've been made public except for two IRS whistleblowers, Gary Shapley and Joseph Ziegler, who alleged that the DOJ had intervened to stop David Weiss from using the kind of power necessary to prosecute Hunter in the first place. In other words, the tax charges are coming now only because the Hunter Biden coverup imploded. Now, according to prosecutors, Hunter spent money on drugs, strippers, luxury hotels, exotic cars, quote, in short, everything but his taxes Hunter apparently spent is what he spent. Now what he earned, he spent a million dollars in 20 16, 1 $0.4 million in 20 17, 1 $0.8 million in 2018 and 600 grand.

1 (3m 32s):
In 2019, he made $7 million in gross income between 2016 and 2020. In those years, Hunter spent over $683,000 on various women as well as $188,000 on adult entertainment. First of all, hasn't the guy ever looked up the internet where porn is free? Anyway, is this the end of the Hunter Biden story? Now that he's being prosecuted, there's every chance that the DOJ will claim that the investigation has hit its endpoint. Despite special counsel Weiss's claims, the probe remains open. After all, what better way to bury Joe's involvement in his son's corrupt schemes than to send that son to jail and claim that justice has been done all after the Biden team tried and failed to cram through a corrupt sweetheart deal with Hunter.

1 (4m 14s):
No matter what though, hunter's gonna be a major headache for Joe Biden all the way through the 2024 election cycle. Joe will have to answer for first that attempted sweetheart deal that Weiss tried to cut with Hunter's. Defense team whistleblowers, as we've talked about, have already alleged that the Biden DOJ tried to hamstringing Weiss's investigation. Those questions will be piled on top of questions about Joe's involvement in Hunter's business, given that we have years of evidence that Joe was involved and just as many years of Joe Long about both hunter's innocence and his own ignorance. Joe Biden's 2020 reelect effort is in serious trouble. And, it should be. We'll get to more evidence on that in just one second.

Birch Gold Group (4m 50s):
First, gold is doing really well in the market right now. There's a reason for that. The reason is that everybody is very fearful about their financial future. Well, if you'd listen to me and invested in gold, you know a few years back, you'd be doing really well right now. Diversify your savings with physical precious metals while stockpiling Silver in your home. Safe with my friends at Birch Gold. Birch Gold Groups most popular special of the year is on now through December 22nd. For every five grand you spend with Birch Gold, they'll send you a one ounce Silver eagle coin for free tax pen to 98, 98 98, and claim your eligibility. Now you can purchase gold and Silver and have it shipped directly to your home or have Birch Gold's precious metals specialist help you convert an existing IRA or 401k into a tax sheltered IRA in gold for no money out of pocket. They'll send you free Silver for every five grand you purchase. Keep it for yourself or give something with real value as a stocking stuffer this year. Just text keyword Ben to 98, 98 98 to claim your eligibility. Birch Gold. They're the people I buy my gold from, that people you should buy your gold from too. With an A plus rating with the Better Business Bureau, thousands of happy customers. Now is the best time to buy gold from Birch Gold Text Ben to 98. 98 98. Claim your eligibility for free Silver on qualifying purchases before December 22nd. Text Ben to 98. 98 98 to get started right now.

1 (6m 0s):
Okay, speaking of Joe Biden's corruption long article in the Wall Street Journal by the editorial board talking about how Joe Biden has assisted hunter's business quote, house investigators keep digging into the Biden family business this week. It comes new evidence of the ways that Joe Biden helps his son using alias email accounts IRS agents, Shapley and Ziglar, who we talked about provided to the House Ways and Means committee more information from their multi-year investigation into Hunter Biden's taxes and businesses. The documents include an 11 page log showing a list of 327 emails Joe sent or received from 2010 to 2019 under pseudonyms, including Robin Ware 4, 5 6, and Robert L. Peters. Mr. Biden was a big user of those shadow accounts.

1 (6m 40s):
Apparently the National Archives and Records Administration says that it has up to 82,000 pages of emails and documents sent or received under those aliases while Joe was vice president. The 327 emails listed in the log are exchanges between Joe and Hunter or Eric Sween, a former Hunter business partner who handled the Biden family finances. The committee says 54 of those exchanges are between Joe Biden and Eric Sween. Five emails were exchanged within five days of Biden's 2014 trip to Ukraine. Another 27 were exchanged prior to his return trip to Ukraine in November, 2014. Those trips coincided with Hunter's lucrative board position at Ukrainian Energy Firm. Barisma. The trips proceeded Joe Biden's 2015 rule, enforcing the ouster of the Ukrainian prosecutor investigating Barisma and its CEO Niklas chesky for corruption.

1 (7m 26s):
Another 38 emails originated from within the White House and were sent to Joe Biden aliases with Hunter Biden copied. The committee doesn't know the contents of those emails, but further evidence provided to Congress raises serious questions about Hunter's role at Barisma and the political access that he was peddling. And again, all of Hunter's former business partners say that was exactly why Hunter was involved in these businesses in the first place. Hunter's former business partners, Evan Archer, previously told Congress that quote, Barisma would've gone out of business if it didn't have the Biden brand attached to it. Also, ways and means has new emails from Ziglar that are revealing about what Barisma wanted from Hunter. One is from Vadim Pky, an advisor to Barisma two Hunter in April, 2015. Again, Joe is VP at this time, the Ukrainian thanked Hunter for quote, the opportunity to meet your father and spend some time together.

1 (8m 12s):
An October, 2016 email between a Blue Star employee. Blue Star is one of the companies that was run with Hunter Biden and one of those emails October, 2016 between a Blue Star employee and Eric Schwean includes the news. The Ukrainian government had ended its prob into love. Chesky Schwean congratulates the team on its awesome work. The Blue Star employee writes, thanks you brought us in. So take a victory lap. All of which suggests that Joe knew full well that Hunter was selling the family brand. Again, all of this stuff is gonna be swirling around Joe, and it's not that Donald Trump is going to be able to confront Joe Biden on stage about this. There will be no debates. I'm just telling you right now, Joe Biden is not getting on stage with Donald Trump. One of the reasons he's not getting on stage with Donald Trump obviously is his health, his senility, all the rest of it.

1 (8m 56s):
The other is that Donald Trump actually would pummel him on the Hunter stuff and this time it would have some teeth. Last time, Joe just lied about it last time Joe said, my son never did anything wrong. He, he never had a relationship with China. He never earned a dollar from China. It was Trump warn dollars from China. All of that has been blown up. Trump would hit him with the kitchen sink if Trump is indeed nominee as expected. So they're not gonna be on a stage together, but that doesn't mean these stories are gonna go away. Surrounding Joe and the chaos surrounding Joe is the biggest threat to his potential 2024 run. His entire case right now is that the chaos surrounding Trump is so bad that you're better off with the chaos. You know, rather than the other chaos, it's a battle of chaos is. And so all of the cast surrounding Trump, again is his best case.

1 (9m 37s):
That is why all of these trials are going to be damaging to Trump thinks Joe, Biden and the Democrats think that. Now the problem for them is that, again, we've been doing this for a while now, if they're really gonna hit Trump with all these trials, they should have announced all these trials, you know, next year they hit it a little bit early and that means that even while the trials are going on, most Americans will be like, we've seen this before. Now Trump, for his part, he has filed notice on Thursday saying he's going to appeal a DC judge's ruling that he's not immune from being charged with federal crimes for his efforts to undo the outcome of the 2020 election. The notice is minor procedural step according to the Washington Post, but it sets in motion one of the most potentially consequential parts of Trump's legal saga as the first former president to be charged with crimes.

1 (10m 18s):
Because again, this has more to do with the timeline than the actual outcome of the case. If the case is delayed beyond 2024 and if Trump becomes president, the case goes away because Trump presumably would just pardon himself or the DOJ is now run by Trump and you would expect that the case basically gets dumped at the altar. With that said, if the case goes forward, Trump is gonna spend an awful lot of time in court, and as Trump has pointed out, these cases are a stretch. The only one of these cases filed against Donald Trump that has any legal merit at all is the classified documents case is Florida. And again, he's made the political case that that is in fact a political prosecution given the fact that apparently everybody who's involved in the federal government has ended up with classified material in their basement.

1 (10m 59s):
Now the counter argument to that from the prosecutor is gonna be, well yeah, and then they all turned it in when we found out about it, as opposed to you, you were shifting boxes around all. But in the world of politics, it all just looks like one wall of sound, one wall of sound directed against Trump. So if the idea from the Biden administration is that Trump is a threat because he's chaotic and also he's a fascist, well then what you would need to do presumably is not look like a co a chaotic fascist, but that's exactly what the Biden administration seems to be doing on the regular and that's a problem. And in fact, the prosecution of Trump is helping Trump make that case about Joe Biden. So here was Trump yesterday talking about how once again this is a witch hunt up in Washington DC and in New York and all the rest,

2 (11m 37s):
But this is a case that should have never been brought. This is a witch hunt. This is election interference at a level that has never seen before. Comes out of the DOJ of the White House in order to hurt a political opponent. And actually it's driving up my pulse because the people of our country get it. The phone numbers are the highest I've ever had and the people of our country get it. It's a disgrace to America. Thank you very much. Do you

1 (12m 6s):
Again? That case that he's making right there, it had a lot less tale to it had a lot less feel to it when it didn't feel as though Joe Biden was actively attempting to stop Donald Trump from attaining the presidency. The more cases get piled on top of cases, the more it feels exactly like that. So on the one hand, you have the entire Democratic party swiveling toward the Trump as a fascist message while the DOJ is going after Donald Trump and after the DOJ tried to cut a sweetheart deal with Hunter Biden and then that imploded. That's on the one hand. On the other hand, you have the Joe Biden team trying to say that Trump is a chaos agent, but the problem is the Democratic Party is a party of chaos right now. Nobody feels secure. Joe Biden is the president.

1 (12m 47s):
If you are feeling chaotic right now, it's not 'cause the Donald Trump, if you are feeling a sense of chaos about the international scene, that is not because of Donald Trump. If you are feeling chaotic on the domestic scene, Democrats run the Senate and Democrats run the White House. So very difficult to blame Donald Trump and the Republicans for that. Even if they are in fact a chaotic mess of a party, which they are. I mean the Republican party is a chaotic mess of a party. No doubt about it. The problem is for the Democrats, so are they and they're the ones in charge right now. And typically when people do a bad job, they get kicked out on their rears. We'll get to that in just one second.

Tommy John (13m 15s):
First this season. Why not give the gift of comfort to everybody on your list, including yourself with new Tommy John underwear, loungewear and PJs make giving Tommy John a holiday tradition for all the men and women in your family. With over 20 million pairs sold and thousands of five star views. Tommy John doesn't have customers, they have fanatics. One Tommy John fanatics quote, fantastic Christmas gift that went so right. She loves the PJ's. By the way, I got rid of all of my underwear and just have Tommy John. My wife loves Tommy John product as well, so they're big in the Shapiro household. Tommy John Loungewear is Cozy enough to use his sleepwear and stylish enough to wear for a quick stroll to the coffee shop. It won't look like you just rolled outta bed even if you did. Again, Tommy John's stuff super comfortable. It looks great as well if you're wearing it outside. Tommy John Loungewear is guaranteed to fit perfectly comfy non pilling microm modal fabric, meaning nolin Ballers, no fuzz luxuriously soft. Try blend fabrics with flexible four-way stretch. Shop tommy john.com/ Ben right now. For the holidays, get 25% off sitewide. That's 25% off everything for a limited time@tommyjohn.com slash Ben. Again, that's tommy john.com/ Ben. Visit tommy john.com for details. Go check them out right now.

1 (14m 19s):
Okay, so again, if Case against Trump, number one that Biden's trying to make is that he's a fascist, then biden's use of the DOJ to go after Trump looks pretty bad for Biden. If case number two is that Trump is a chaos agent and we certainly cannot have a chaos agent as the President. Well then you gotta look a little bit less chaotic. And right now it looks like Joe Biden is ready to either fall down or set something on fire or both every moment of the damn today. And so is this party. So the the Democrats in Congress who keep pointing at the Republicans and saying they're a bleep show, which again is true. I mean they're just as much of a bleep show and they're the ones who are in charge. The, the, the radical wing of the Democratic party has yet to be disowned by the Democratic party.

1 (14m 60s):
I've said for a long time, whichever party runs to sanity first wins And. it looks like neither party is interested in running towards sanity at any rate of speed. So yesterday was a banner day for the squad in Congress between defending Jamal Bowman and defending antisemitism. They really did themselves proud Alexander Ocasio-Cortez a complete idiot. She she spent yesterday defending Jamal Bowman for pulling a fire alarm. She, I gotta say I I will never cease to be amazed at the fact that some people consider this human being to be intelligent. That is an amazing, amazing thought. America's a wonderful country. Literally anyone can succeed. Literally anyone in any case. Here is Alexander Ocasio-Cortez defending a fellow member of Congress for pulling a fire alarm to lay a vote.

3 (15m 43s):
Jamal Bowman has more courage in his, in his pinky finger. Then the entire Republican party put together more integrity than the entire Republican party put together. And that's exactly, she's dancing

1 (15m 58s):
Should

3 (15m 58s):
Moving. Why? They're moving to cen him today. New York Republicans, oh, that is so unfocused and so unable to make people's lives better, that they've decided to bully their calling.

1 (16m 10s):
Your hands are getting worse. I think that's

3 (16m 11s):
What today is about. They're wasting our time. They're wasting the country's time over.

1 (16m 16s):
They're, they're wasting our time

3 (16m 17s):
City. What rises to censure? I mean truly these arguments that are being made here, what's next? Jaywalking,

1 (16m 27s):
Jaywalking. I mean, he pulled a fire alarm to delay a vote. He pulled a firearm alarm to delay a vote. The disease of of crazy hands, by the way is getting worse. And I think it's true for pretty much all of our politicians. I will in fact blame Donald Trump for this. So Donald Trump, he has the specific hand motions in the little box, mostly a little bit out here, a little bit, mostly in the box, little right in here, in the little box. And then Kamala Harris is like all over the place. Hmm. And then you've got a OC who's moving and grooving and like the, the hands are getting crazier. They're getting crazier. I I. Just side note here in this clip of Kamala Harris with the hands, I'm just gonna note that I'm not sure who's doing more hands.

1 (17m 9s):
Kamala Harris or the, or the translator for the deaf, the, the who, who's actually doing, you know, sign language. Here we go. Just the, the disease of hands is too much guys. It's getting to be too much I gotta say, here's Kamala Harris.

4 (17m 25s):
What the young leaders were saying is exactly what these global leaders are talking about.

1 (17m 30s):
She's moving the box over here,

4 (17m 31s):
Which is in the face under the shelf of this crisis. We must all

1 (17m 34s):
Got another box, but it's down here.

4 (17m 36s):
We cannot continue to allow large corporations. She's leaving the box tapping shortsighted leaders to deny climate science, to delay climate justice. A lot of acting hands and to greenwash climate inaction.

1 (17m 49s):
She's in the box guy. She's in the box. Everybody stop with the hands. It's too much. Okay? But again, back to the democratic chaos. So the squad, which has yet to be disowned by the mainstream democratic party because they're the future, the future is morons with double digit IQs are extremely radical in their socialism. That's who the Democratic party cannot own. Ayanna Presley spent yesterday when a OC wasn't stumping for Jibal and Boben, a fellow idiot, Ayanna Presley, the adjunct member of the squad, she's the Ringo star of the squad. She's the one everybody forgets about. But Ayanna Presley, she suggested yesterday that it's important to expand access to the ballot box to 16 year olds

6 (18m 25s):
As a Boston City counselor, prior to my time here in Congress, I was proud to advocate for expanded access to the ballot box, requiring ballots be made available in multiple languages, expanding early voting in local elections and in Congress. I led efforts, I led efforts and legislation to lower the federal voting age to 16 and urge the DOJ to aggressively protect voting rights and to fight against voter suppression.

1 (18m 51s):
She wants 16 year olds to vote. 16 year olds are some of the dumbest people on planet earth. Just gonna, I mean, other than members of the squad, but 16, 16 year olds. How about we raise the voting age to people who are non-dependent on their parents? How about that? How you have to have like independent income to vote? How about if you're dependent on somebody else, then your vote ought not count? That seems like a better rule if we're gonna like change the voting rules. How about that? How about if all of your income is earned from somebody else? You don't get a say. That makes a hell of a lot more sense than making 16, 16 year olds. They're still on allowance from their parents. It's ridiculous. The, the, these are the, the Democratic party, again, you're gonna make the argument that these folks ought to be the the non-Cat.

1 (19m 32s):
This is, this is the sober party. This is the sober party. By the way, this party is so sober it won't even denounce its own anti-Semites and I mean like it's full scale. Rashida Taleb, Ilhan Omar, anti-Semites. Yesterday, Rashida Taleb was out there suggesting that antisemitism was being weaponized to silence her because she actually is not an anti-Semite, despite the fact that she's a radical antisemite. I mean she hates the udin here. Here's Rashida tb, terrorist supporter,

5 (19m 55s):
All those that you know from college students to those in the workplace. I'm getting the calls of people being pushed to silence being bullied. Some people weaponizing antisemitism in a way to silence voices,

1 (20m 8s):
Weaponizing

5 (20m 9s):
Anti, all of that needs to stop. You know, Americans have a right to speak up. Americans have a right to, to the institutions they work at or the people that represent them to say, look, this is my opinion. I believe you should support X, Y, and Z. And again, we have to be able to make sure that as we look at all these forms of hate, that it is not being weaponized in a way to silence voices like myself and our, you know, many of the voices that are here,

1 (20m 35s):
She's a victim and the Democratic party still refuses to say this. Meanwhile, Cory Bush, another adjunct member of the squad, but just as terrible, she's the BLM member of the Hama squad. She says, this is, this is hysterical. Honestly, this is really, really funny. When you have Democrats who are now claiming that words can't hurt anybody, the entire party is predicated on the notion that words hurt people. That's literally what, that's like their whole shtick. Donald Trump is a fascist 'cause he says mean words to them and now they're like mean words don't hurt anybody. Especially when we're calling for the death of all Jews. That's like, you know, that's just mean words. Here's Cory Bush doing this routine yesterday,

7 (21m 12s):
But you still face a lot of criticism at home for being perceived as antisemitic. What's your response to those that criticism?

8 (21m 19s):
So first of all, let me just say I have condemned antisemitism 800 times over and over and not just since October the seventh. But this is the thing. But as much as it is unacceptable And, it is un intolerable. We also can't tolerable conflate the criticism of Israel the Israeli government with antisemitism. And we also have to stop with the word Saudi

1 (21m 53s):
Kamas is that antisemitism?

8 (21m 54s):
It's this word. You said that word. You said this word And. it hurt me. Well, how

1 (22m 0s):
She's a Frisbee advocate now. Well

8 (22m 2s):
Hurt. Do people feel when the

1 (22m 3s):
Switching time,

8 (22m 4s):
Like that's what I'm worried about. Yeah, this word hurt me. Oh me, you use this word. Well, I, well a word was used, but you're safe. A word was used and you stand here in this country and you have, you're able to walk in and out of your home. You're able to walk to the grocery store, you're

1 (22m 21s):
Able to to tuck. It's the same exact people, kid in the same exact people who say that if you don't post a little black square for Black Lives Matter, you're a bigot. and they, oh my God. Oh my God. So, and in any case, short form version, Democrats keep claiming that if Trump is elected, chaos will break out. They are the chaos agents. They are the chaos agents, and not just that because of their intersectional ideology, they cannot dissociate from the chaos agents in their own mist. We'll get to that in just one second.

Current.com (22m 45s):
First, do you wish that you learn more in school about how to manage your finances? A lot of people get into college without even knowing how credit can affect their financial wealth. Even now, traditional banking can make most basic transactions complex. This is where currents comes in. Current has now created a product that is built for everyone. It's a banking system that's more affordable, accessible, and innovative. Current helps you spend, save, and manage your money. It's a secured credit card that lets you use your own money to build credit. You can even boost your savings with a rate of up to 4%. The best part is there are no credit checks or history required. So no matter what your credit history current's build card is for you. Plus there are no annual or subscription fees. If you set up direct deposit, you can get paid up to two days faster. You can qualify for a fee free overdraft of up to 200 bucks. The world is changing its time that banking did too. Sign up in less than two minutes and get started today. Use Coach Shapiro to get 50 bucks when you set up a qualifying $200 direct deposit at sign signup. Go to current.com/shapiro, use Code Shapiro or download that app. That's C-U-R-R-E-N t.com/ Shapiro. Promo code Shapiro terms and conditions do apply. Current is a financial technology company, not a bank. Banking services provided by Choice Financial Group member FTIC and Cross River Bank member FDIC. For full terms and conditions, visit current.com or call 8 8 8 8 5 1 11 72 for more information.

8 (23m 57s):
Okay, so speaking of a Democratic party totally unable to dissociate from its radicals. Yesterday tape broke of a person named Niha Awad. He's executive director of the Council on American Islamic Relations. and he was openly celebrating the October 7th kamas terror attacks on Israelis. The worst terror attack in the West since nine 11. Here was CARE'S Executive director,

9 (24m 17s):
The people of Gaza only decided to break the siege, the walls of the concentration camp on October 7th. And yes, I was happy to see people breaking the siege and throwing down the shackles of their own land and walk free into their land that they were not allowed to walk in. And yes, the people of Gaza have the right to self-defense, have the right to defend themselves. And yes, Israel as an occupying power does not have that right to self-defense.

1 (25m 1s):
Allah's words were perfectly in line with the Council on American Islamic Relations, generalized antisemitism and radicalism on October 7th, the date of the Kamas Massacre Care, which is the name of the group care national tweeted quote, we join the American Muslim community in reaffirming our support for the Palestinian people's right to freedom and calling for an end to the Israeli occupation, which sparks the deadly violence we see again and again including today. On October 7th, before any Israeli response care also called for an end to American Aid to Israel, as well as an end to the Abraham Accords. The group has not offered a single word condemning Hamas, but here's the thing, care remains a go-to organization for both the left wing media and Democrats in politics in May, in an attempt to counter accusations of antisemitism from inside the Democratic Party, the White House organized a national strategy to counter antisemitism.

1 (25m 47s):
That strategy included a group dedicated to cross community solidarity and that group, this anti antisemitism group to fight antisemitism included care, which the White House said would quote launch a tour to educate religious communities about steps they can take to protect their houses of worship from hate incidents, such as instituting appropriate security measures, developing strong relationships with other faith communities and maintaining open lines of communication with local law enforcement. So why was care included in this enterprise? Well, in order to support that intersectional coalition, the Biden administration is attempting to build now the Jews don't truly fit in that intersectional coalition. Of course, they don't fit comfortably in the oppressor oppressed matrix that underscores left-wing ideology because Jews are both highly targeted for hate and also highly successful.

1 (26m 32s):
But the left likes the pretense that Jews belong in the coalition care is the price of Jewish belonging. Since there's no substitute for care in the organizational coalition to represent Muslims, Jewish groups are expected to swallow hard and pretend that care is legitimate. As tablet magazines Armand Rosen says, quote, the a DL and care might not get along, but they're protected by the same dynamic. They both provide a nearly identical service to the same larger coalition, which returns the favor by keeping both groups at a level of prominence that crowds out any potential rivals. That's the Biden Administration's program activate that intersectional coalition of the oppressed at all costs, and that means covering up radical Muslim hatred for Jews and that means including radical Muslims even in the program to fight antisemitism.

1 (27m 13s):
That was the plan, at least Biden's special envoy for monitoring and combating antisemitism. Deborah Lipstadt admitted that Kara was problematic in her words, but said they could be included in the White House working group on antisemitism because quote, if they're really willing to change, if they're really willing to say, Hey, we now see this as a serious problem, then they are welcome. But of course, care was not willing to change. That was obvious from the word go to actively oppose Kamas would violate care's entire reason for being the roots of the council on American Islamic. Relations are fascinating and frightening as prosecutor. Andy McCarthy writes in his book, the Grand Jihad Hamas supporters gathered at a Marriott hotel in Philadelphia on October 27th, 1993, with the intent of creating a new public Relations organization in the United States.

1 (27m 57s):
Those Hamas supporters included one Omar Achmad, president of the Islamic Association for Palestine concerned about being recorded. Ahmad referred to himself as Omar Akia and referred to Sama instead of Hamas. Sama is Hamas backwards. Of course, Achmad at the meeting said that it would be worthwhile to lie about the agenda that the new organization could not admit we represent Samah Hamas or that Ahmad Yasin, the head of Hamas represents me. Instead, they would claim that it was all about pushing Israel back to the 48 Borders. Aad, who is at the time the PR director for the IAP was also at that conference. aad, of course, is now the executive director of care there. According to McCarthy Awad was an active participant in the meetings where he agreed with achmad about adopting lying to Americans.

1 (28m 41s):
Quote, when I speak with the American, I speak with someone who doesn't know anything. As for the Palestinian who has a martyr brother or something, I know how to address 'em. You see, less than one year later after that meeting, Kara was born, Kara's links with the Holy Land Foundation and the Muslim Brotherhood from its foundations. As Daniel Pipes explains, Kamas designated a terrorist organization by the US and many other governments indirectly created care and two groups remain tight examples. In 1994, care Head niwa publicly declared his support for Kamas the Holy Land Foundation. A Kamas front group contributed five grand to care. In turn care exploited the nine 11 attacks to help raise money for the Holy Land Foundation. Multiple board members and staff of care have been arrested or denied entry to the United States, or were indicted on and pled guilty to terrorism charges care defended.

1 (29m 26s):
In 1993, world Trade Center bombers calling their convictions a quote, travesty of justice. They didn't condemn some bin Laden for nine 11 until Bin Laden himself claimed the crime. They opposed the deportation of terrorist Smia oda. They steadfastly tied Virtually all anti-terrorist efforts to phantom Islamophobia In 2008, the FBI cut off Relations with care. But under Democrats, the American government has never been willing to let go of the illusion that the Council on American Islamic Relations represents a crucial part of the intersectional coalition. In 2011, the Obama Justice Department declined to prosecute Kara Co-founder Omar Achmad. Achmad, as we have said, worked closely with the Holy Land Foundation and with the Islamic Association of Palestine.

1 (30m 5s):
That declaration to prosecute came despite the fact that both Attorney General Eric Holder and then FBI director Robert Mueller had serious reservations about care. According to reporter Patrick Poole, quote, indictments were scuttled last year at the direction of top level political appointees within the Obama Justice Department and possibly even the White House. The Trump administration when it came in cut off Relations with care, but under the Biden administration care was back. Niwa has spent years being fettered by the media because the left wing media require a Muslim organization within the intersectional coalition. No matter how extreme, thus a AAT is welcome to National TV to pretend in moderation, even while he spouts Kamas talking points. Here he was on M-S-N-B-C just last month.

11 (30m 46s):
I mean he, he is speaking the truth. We have been told lies for for ages. Even young Jewish Americans are telling, many of them are telling their their leaders, you lie to us, you lie to us about what Israel is and what Israel is doing. So the growing number of Jewish Americans identified that the, the, the state of Israel is an apartheid system and they will not support it. None, none of us speak for, for, for for Gaza and those who are fighting on behalf of the Palestinians. But let me say this, Israel holds 8,000 hostages. They have taken 1000 hostage in in the past weeks from Gaza and from the West Bank.

11 (31m 29s):
There is no Hamas in Gaza. Reverend and Israel has been killing Palestinians left and right. Israel has has unleashed armed settlers to confiscate Palestinian homes and kick them from from their homes because they're not Jewish.

1 (31m 44s):
This is an amazing statement that you're hear again, this was on TV like one month ago. He was claiming there was no Hamas and Gaza directly from his mouth. He claimed that those were people who were fighting on behalf of the people of Gaza, meaning Kamas. Now of course, he said the quiet part out loud that he likes Kamas, that he likes October 7th and all of the rest. The question is whether the left will be willing this time to admit what is plain that care is a radical Islamist organization. Now the White House has put out a statement condemning a wad statements quote in these strongest terms, but will they dump care at long last? No, don't hold your breath right in just one second. We'll get to the latest from the Gaza Strip

Beam (32m 17s):
first. The holidays are here. The last thing you need during this busy time of year is to miss out on a great night's sleep. That is why my team uses Beam's Dream Powder Beam's Dream Powder contains a powerful all natural blend of ingredients, including magnesium ine. It's not just a run of the mill sleep aid, it's concoction carefully crafted to help you slip into the sweet embrace of rest without the grogginess that often accompanies other sleep remedies. Sleep is the foundation of mental and physical health. You have to have a consistent nighttime routine to function at your best. Today my listeners get a special discount on Beam's Dream Powder. It's their bestselling hot cocoa for sleep with no added sugar. It's now available in delicious flavors like cin, mint, cocoa chocolate, peanut butter, and mint chip. Better sleep has never tasted better. Just mix Beam dream into hot water or milk stir or froth and enjoy before bedtime. If you find yourself battling those bedtime blues, give it a shot your weary self. We'll, thank you. If you wanna try Beams bestselling Dream powder, take advantage of their biggest sale of the year. Get up to 50% off for a limited time when you go to shop Beam dot com slash Ben. Discount Auto apply to checkout no code necessary. That's shop b m.com/ BEN for up to 50% off.

Lady Ballers (33m 18s):
Also, lady Ballers is the number one Streaming movie in America. It's only at DailyWire plus. Well, you don't have a DailyWire Plus membership. Well, let's take care of that right now. Get 30% off new DailyWire plus annual memberships This weekend only. If you already have a DailyWire plus annual membership, fantastic. You can give a 30% off DailyWire plus annual membership to friends, family members, coworkers, even complete strangers. Give the gifts of the top movie in America and unlimited access to all the incredible content that DailyWire offers. Take a look at the Daily Wires, lady Ballers. The people have spoken. Lady Ballers is the number one Streaming movie is America. We're heroes. It's a draino Festival bring the kids. We could dominate every woman's sport. My pronouns are I'm strong. Watch the most triggering comedy of the decade. I was just invited to the White House to give a talk on women's rights. You earn that. You own it. Lady Ballers exclusively on DailyWire Plus, It's hilarious. It has a 92% audience rating with thousands of reviews. It's time to spread the word. Watch the biggest movie in the country, lady Ballers Streaming exclusively at DailyWire Plus. And just a reminder yet 30% off DailyWire plus annual memberships, This weekend only. It's the perfect gift for yourself or anyone on your Christmas list. Go to DailyWire dot com slash subscribe and get your 30% off DailyWire Plus membership today.

11 (34m 38s):
And meanwhile, speaking of the left, unable to dissociate from most radical members of its own base, the university system continues to struggle with the fact that they are funded in large measure, not only by radical leftists who actually like Kamas for example, but actually by governments like the government of Qatar. So Qatar has spent literally hundreds of millions of dollars at American universities.

1 (34m 60s):
I mean like hundreds of millions. And this has been attempted to be obscured by various college presidents. But the reality is that again, Qatar, which is very, very friendly with Iran, has gained, has gained power at a lot of these universities. The reason that they, they give money to American universities is not because they love American higher education. It's because they wish to dedicate, for example, middle Eastern studies programs that are stacked with professors who promote the pro Iran anti-Israel pro radical Islam point of view. Columbia's Middle Eastern studies program is just the best example of this, but governments like Qatar, they give tons of money to these universities. They were asked about, by the way, the university presidents were asked about this at that hearing a couple of days ago, and they pretended they had no clue how much money was actually flowing in.

1 (35m 45s):
But the answer is like not just hundreds of millions of dollars. Over the course of years, billions of dollars have been flowing into American universities in order to again buy access or to prop up people who they think agree with them. According to y net news, three weeks ago, the flow of Qatari funds to various sources didn't concern anyone. Money was delivered without interruption, but some of that money was being delivered to academia. The Qatari government sent billions of dollars to Ivy League American colleges yearly forcing institutions to adapt and allow violent pro-Palestinian protests. For example, according to the free press, Qatar again has been spending tons of money in these places.

1 (36m 27s):
So it's not a giant shock that these universities are fully in line with the needs and wants of the Qatari. According to a piece from Eli Lake over at the free press, just last month since 1997, Qatar has donated more than $103 million to Virginia Commonwealth University for a fine arts campus. Since 2001, Qatar has donated $1.8 billion to Cornell for a medical school. Since 2003, Qatar has donated nearly $700 million to Texas a and m for an engineering campus. Since 2004, Qatar has donated $740 million to Carnegie Mellon University for a computer science campus. So as Eli like says, one might expect that scholarly institutions that have benefited from this auto's money would rethink their partnership after Qatar's foreign Minister said that Israel alone is responsible for the pogrom perpetrated by Hamas terrorists for after Qatar's Prime Minister has kept the Hamas office open in its capital, but the universities have declined to make any statement about this at all.

1 (37m 22s):
in fact, Kelly Brown spokeswoman for Texas a and m said, quote, maintaining relationships with countries like Qatar serves a broader purpose, including fostering international dialogue and cooperation. Texas a and m's relationship with Qatar is focused on educational and research activities. I mean, so why exactly would they be doing all of this? Again, the reason they're doing all of this is to buy access. That is why you do it or to promote people who are already pushing your, your own perspective on these issues. You know, the, the, the fact that that this was considered wildly non-controversial for 20 years is kind of an amazing, amazing thing. Until 2021, the highest profile recipient of Qatari money in Washington DC was the Brookings Institution. In 2013, it received a four year, $14.8 million grant to help fund the Brookings Doha Center.

1 (38m 7s):
Brookings received another four year grant in 27 from Qatar, but in 2021, the institute ended its relationship with the Doha Center claiming it was focusing on the future on digital and global engagement. Why exactly? Well, because the Doha Center closing overlapped with an FBI investigation into retired Marine General John Allen, who's president of Brookings between November, 2017 and June, 2022 because he was acting as an unregistered lobbyist for Qatar. So again, these universities, there's a lot of money tied up in their left wing agenda. The good news is that people are starting to see this and pull their cash. According to Axios, university of Pennsylvania, donors withdrawing a gift worth around a hundred million dollars to protest the school's response to antisemitism on campus.

1 (38m 48s):
The final straw for Ross Stevens founder and CEO of Stoneridge Asset Management was Tuesday's testimony from Penn President Liz McGill. So he's pulling his $100 million. There are, there are other outlets that are now turning against the university system in excellent ways. For example, so there's a group called Palantir. Palantir is now opening up 180 hiring slots to students afraid of antisemitism on campus saying, we'll just hire you directly out of college. You don't even have to finish up your college degree. Now the only thing I'd want from Palantir is expand that not only to Jews afraid of antisemitism, but to everyone. Everyone needs to start hiring people directly out of high school and stop worrying about where they went to college. These colleges are indoctrination mills that are designed specifically to rack up debt and also to indoctrinate your kids into left-wing worldviews.

1 (39m 35s):
This is why people should stop complying with the nonsense that these universities are, are somehow training and honing the minds of these folks. According to Mediaite Rabbi David Wpe, who I know I'm friendly with, with Rabbi Wolfe, he's a visiting scholar at Harvard's Divinity School. He just resigned from the university's antisemitism advisory committee on Thursday, just two days after President Claudine Gay's controversial Congressional testimony Earlier this week, well be said, as of today, I've resigned from the Antisemitism Advisory Committee at Harvard without rehashing all the obvious reasons that have been endlessly Adam braided online and with great respect for the members of the committee. The short explanation is both events on campus and the painfully inadequate testimony reinforced the idea I cannot make the sort of difference that I had hoped.

1 (40m 17s):
That, of course is exactly right. That is exactly right. So it's time to abandon these universities. It's very important actually that people abandon these universities because it's not just that they are anti-Israel and pro radical Islam is that they are wildly left wing. They've embraced an intersectional idea of life that is deeply damaging to the American body politic. I've been saying for 20 years people need to remove their money from these universities. I'm glad that some people are finally catching on to all of that. Meanwhile, in Israel, Israel is gaining the upper hand in Southern Gaza as well. Israel is taking over a major city in Han it's called Unis, which is located in Southern Gaza.

1 (40m 58s):
Meanwhile, Kamas is literally firing rockets out of civilian setup. Israel, setting up civilian areas where civilians can go for safety and Hamas is immediately embedding there and then firing rockets from those places. Shocker, because this is what they do. Meanwhile, even Palestinians are now talking openly about how humanitarian aid being sent into Gaza being stolen by Hamas. Here's an elderly Palestinian woman saying this in Al Jazeera. Again, the shock is not that she's saying this. The shock is that Al Jazeera allowed it to be broadcast. Usually Al Jazeera, again owned by Qatar, tries to cut this off

13 (41m 27s):
And had

1 (41m 31s):
She says, you know that all the people here cannot find anything to eat or drink. She says, everybody is suffering. He said, the situation is difficult. All no aid is coming. She says, all the aid goes to the tunnels, hundred grand. It does not reach all the people. We came here from Gaza City, all the aid is meant for us. I'm not afraid of Kamas. I'm talking to them as well. All the aid reaches the Gaza Strip. A lot of aid is coming and is being distributed. This is what they say as the reporter. And she says, no, Kamas takes everything to their homes. They can take me, shoot me, or do whatever they want. To me, again, this is what Israel has been saying. This is what Israel has been saying is that we're sending an aid and then the first thing that happens is that the Hamas fighters and terrorists steal it, and then the international community blames Israel for not sending enough aid, which Hamas then steals.

1 (42m 21s):
Now, meanwhile, the media are doing Hamas' work. So yesterday Israel released photos of Israel Israeli soldiers who had arrested and detained a bunch of Hamas terrorists who had surrendered, and photos were released of the surrender. Naturally, CNN treated this as though this was terrible and evil apparently. In introducing the segment, CNN's Phil Mattingly opened with new and disgusting images this morning showing the Israeli military detaining dozens of men in Gaza seen stripped downs in their underwear. Well, actually, it turns out that these people are all Hamas members. They were stripped to their underwear because again, they might have bombs on them.

1 (43m 4s):
They might have bombs on them. The the notion that Israel is stripping randos down to their underwear for no reason and just arresting them is silly. But of course the media are doing the work of Hamas. This is what they do all the time. The un by the way, also doing the work of Hamas. So the United Nations, which is the most disgusting organization on planet, are truly an awful organization. The UN Security Council is expected to meet today to discuss the war on Gaza after Secretary general Antonio Gutierrez in a rare move, formerly urged the 15 member council to use all of its influence to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe in the enclave. Gutter has invoked Article 99 of the UN charter since being appointed, this is the first time he's done that. The rule allows the un leader to bring any matter he believes, threatens international peace and security to the security council.

1 (43m 48s):
Woo-hoo woo. I invoke article 276 of Shut the Up Ya moron again, like the, this, this ridiculous nonsense where, where Gutierrez spends his days doing the work of Hamas is, is just amazing. And the fact that anyone takes the UN seriously is ridiculous. As Ali Cohen, the foreign Minister of Israel says, Gutierrez's tenure is Aang world Bees. His request to activate Article 99 and the call for a ceasefire in Gaza constitutes supports of kamas and endorsement of the murder of the elderly, of the abduction of babies, and the rape of women. Anyone who supports world peace must support the liberation of Gaza from Kamas. That obviously is true. Doesn't matter whether it's true or not, the UN is a terrible gross place.

1 (44m 28s):
So that's no shock at all. Meanwhile, the Biden administration is starting to recognize some of its own boo boos. So one of those boo boos, by the way, is when the Biden administration came into power, they immediately decided that they were going to de-list the Houthis in Iranian backer group in Yemen as a terrorist organization, the Houthis have been firing on American ships. John Kirby was asked about that yesterday. He's like, yeah, maybe that was a bad idea.

14 (44m 49s):
Does the president have any regret for over de-listing the Houthis as a terror organization? Is he reconsidering that at all?

15 (44m 58s):
I've already said that we are going to review that decision.

14 (45m 4s):
What?

15 (45m 4s):
No, we are, I've said it, I said it a couple of weeks ago that we were going to take a look at that decision and, and we still are on the results. I don't have a date certain for you or any outcome to brief Jackie, but we said we're already gonna take a look and, and, and review that decision.

1 (45m 21s):
Well, I mean, maybe you should have thought about that before. I'm glad it's you're doing it now. In just one second, we'll get to the crisis on the border. It is ongoing and meanwhile, the Biden administration keeps claiming that if you try to stop it, that means that you like Vladimir Putin or something.

ZipRecruiter (45m 33s):
First, if you're a business owner and you need to grow your team, your perfect gift is simple. You want a smart hiring solution look no further than ZipRecruiter right now. ZipRecruiter is giving it to you for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Now, you might be asking how ZipRecruiter is a gift to those who are hiring. Well, ZipRecruiter uses smart matching technology to identify the most qualified people for a wide variety of roles. ZipRecruiter lets top candidates know when they're a great match for your job to encourage them to apply the bow on top. If you see a candidate who's a great match for your job, ZipRecruiter makes it easy to send them a personal invite so they're more likely to apply. Get your hiring wrapped up quickly with ZipRecruiter. Four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter will get a quality candidate within day one. Just go to this exclusive web address right now. Try ZipRecruiter for FREE at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Again, at ZipRecruiter dot com slash D-A-I-L-Y-W-I-R-E, we are constantly upgrading the quality of people we have here at DailyWire. A huge number of our employees come via ZipRecruiter. You can do the same. Go to ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire and try it out for free. ZipRecruiter is indeed the smartest way to hire ones. Again, go to our special web address ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire to get started.

1 (46m 34s):
Well, meanwhile, the Joe Biden border surge continues according to breitbart.com, right by Texas, has absorbed a constant stream of fully loaded buses carrying migrants from a border patrol processing facility to the Casa Altas migrant Welcome center in Tucson. As each bus carrying migrants released by the border patrol arrived at the center on Wednesday, a simultaneous flow of buses, taxis, and travel vans shuttled newly released migrants to other destinations further inland, some destined for the Tucson International Airport to begin their journey to cities across the nation. According to a source within CBP not authorized to speak to the media, the latest border surge places, the Tucson Southern Border Patrol sector atop a list of those alongside the southwest border for migrants apprehension. On Tuesday, 10,400 migrants were arrested by border patrol.

1 (47m 15s):
On Wednesday, the total number arrested dropped slightly to more than 8,000, bringing the two day total of migrant arrests to 19,000. That's in two days. The flood of illegal immigrants continues. It is not abating in any way, shape, or form. Meanwhile, the Biden administration continues to not acquiesce to a bill that would include some border security changes to actually secure that border. Instead, they're yelling at Republicans for attaching border security measures to Ukraine, Israel, Taiwan funding bill. They're saying that's really bad, really terrible, and in fact, Karin Jean Pire is I mean. This takes true call blaming Republicans for the border crisis that has taken place solely and completely because of the Biden administration.

1 (47m 55s):
Here's Kain Shaere.

16 (47m 58s):
Republicans talk about immigration reform. They talk about border security. The president, you know, on day one the president put forth an immigration policy, right? He put put forth a comprehensive immigration legislation to start that conversation. Essentially to start negotiating on day one. It's been three years and they have not been moving forward in good faith. They have not been trying to get to a solution in good faith. The system is broken. We wanna find real solutions. The president said yesterday he, he's real, he's willing to have a serious conversation about this, but they, where's the good faith? We've been very, very clear about about the supplemental and how important it is.

16 (48m 39s):
As you've seen, the OMB director has been pretty out Pre out there on the different networks making the case, and one of the things that she has said is that it's stunning. It's stunning that we've gotten to this point, right? It's stunning that we have gotten to this point and that republicans in Congress willing to give Putin a a gift, the greatest gift that Putin could help, could hope for. That's what we're seeing. And so they are playing chicken with our

1 (49m 3s):
National, all you have to do is sign a bill. That's what we're

16 (49m 6s):
Seeing here.

1 (49m 6s):
You're playing chicken and history. Will,

16 (49m 8s):
Will remember them harshly.

1 (49m 11s):
No. History is gonna remember that you guys were so adamant about leaving the border open that you allowed Ukraine to wither. That's what history's gonna remember. It's like the easiest bipartisan bill in history. Seriously, this one's super easy. Not because Republicans love aid to Ukraine, but because Republicans are willing to sign off on that for a few more border control guarantees, and you guys are like, no, not gonna do it. Why is your priority leaving the border open? That's the question again, Republicans are willing to acquiesce to your desire for Ukraine aid. They want the Israel aid, they want the Taiwan aid. Why are you guys not willing to acquiesce on the border? It's amazing. I mean, truly, it does make you ask the question, why do they want the border so wide open? Why are they so desperate to keep the border completely out of control?

1 (49m 53s):
Why? Why is they only want more money so they can drop process people and send them to the interior of the United States where they will never be heard of again until Democrats amnesty them? Why? Why? Why are you so intent on doing that as opposed to strengthening our laws with regard to the southern border? But again, this is the entire Biden administration at this point. Here is the OMB Director, Shalonda Young, saying that she's stunned. Republicans actually wanna secure the border alongside Ukraine aid.

17 (50m 16s):
We're always willing to have a conversation. But I believe Congress has been talking about this long enough and I'm happy that the question was called, unfortunately people who know the stakes, who are supporters of Ukraine, who are supporters of Israel, decided to put politics ahead of our national security interests. And frankly, I'm I I remain stunned by that.

1 (50m 42s):
Why are you stunned by that? Again, this is all part and part again, this is, this is an argument. Biden should be making himself truly, he should be making the argument that in order to say fight terrorism, you need to close the border. This is like if Biden actually wanted to win the election, you know what the moderate position is on immigration? It's closer to the right wing position. Donald Trump is winning on the immigration issue by leaps and bounds. You know, could Joe, Biden could do, he could. He could make this deal and that would allow him to actually go to the moderate American and say, listen, I tried to shut the border. I'm doing my best. I even signed a bill, a bipartisan bill with Republican support to do things on the border. And then he could go to his radical base and say, guys, I didn't wanna pass the bill, but you guys wanted the UK Ukraine aid. I wanted the UK Ukraine aid.

1 (51m 22s):
We needed the UK Ukraine aid. It's like a perfect win for him, and he refuses to take it. That's how in ho to his own radical base he is to that. So-called intersectional coalition. It is a wild thing. It's a wild, like, I can't imagine the political calculus going through the minds of the Biden administration. I guess not much, I guess not much. They're really bad at this. Like truly, truly awful at this already coming up, we'll jump into the v BEN Shapiro show mailbag because it is a Friday. But remember, you can only have your question answered if you are a DailyWire member. So go check that out right now. Become a member. Use Code Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

Learn About Gold (52m 1s):
8 million Border Crossings War in the Middle East, Ukraine, China, Russia, Iran, political infighting, high inflation. We are facing unprecedented times and the status quo just doesn't work anymore. It's time to get your house in order. Planning for the future needs to be done now. If you've been thinking about diversifying your portfolio and adding some financial protection, you should consider gold. Gold has often been used to protect assets against inflation. Countries are buying massive amounts of gold as a hedge against market collapse. Learn about gold.com is a simple platform to help you better understand the need for gold in your 401k or keeping gold on hand during these unprecedented times. Visit learn about gold.com and take our gold quiz to see if you qualify for up to $2,500 in free gold. Our website has extensive educational resources that can help guide you along the path of precious metals investing that's learn about gold.com. Learn about gold.com, learn about gold.com.