0 (0s):
Biden's Special Prosecutor Jack Smith launches another four Charges that Donald Trump over mishandling of classified information as two more cases against Trump loom. The collapsing Hunter Biden plea deal spells vulnerability for Joe and House Republicans reveal how the Biden White House pushed censorship on Facebook. I'm Ben Spiro. This is the Bench Spiro show.

ExpressVPN (22s):
The Bench Bureau Show is sponsored by ExpressVPN I. talk about them every single show. Why haven't you gotten a VPN yet? Get ExpressVPN right now at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (29s):
Well, another day, another set of Charges against the former president of the United States. There are a bunch of Charges looming in separate cases from the classified documents case. We have the Fannie Willis case in Georgia that presumably will be about January 6th and electoral pressure. There is the Jack Smith case looming about January 6th and electoral pressure. But there are new Charges that were filed yesterday by Jack Smith. These new Charges are in the classified documents case and they really carry two major revelations. The the first major revolution lation that is carried by, by the actual filing is that the prosecutors know full well that the famous tape now of Donald Trump waving around a document and saying to people, here is a classified document. I could have declassified this document, but Brad, I decided not to declassify the document.

0 (1m 9s):
It's very classified. Well, Trump had claimed that this classified document was In fact maps of a golf course or something. And apparently, according to the prosecutors, they know full well it was not maps of golf course, it was actually attack plans with regard to Iran. And so we now know that what the prosecutors know. And so presumably that will be the censor piece of their case. When you have the person on tape admitting to the crime, it usually is a, a very bad indicator for them legally speaking. So that is number one piece of information is that the tape where Trump is talking, he'd made various excuses about it. It appears that the prosecution is ready to blow up those excuses. The second piece of revelatory information here is that Donald Trump apparently told one of his aids Decamp a, a maintenance worker at Trump's South Florida resort named Carlos de Oliviera.

0 (1m 56s):
Apparently he told this fellow to wipe the security tape. According to the Wall Street Journal, Trump and his aide sought to have surveillance footage from his Mar-a-Lago Club deleted, so it could not be turned over to a grand jury according to Jack Smith. In these new Charges, the new indictment Charges Carlos de Oliviera the maintenance worker as well, making him the third defendant In the case you'll remember, the second defendant in the case was Walt Nata, who's another Trump aide who's apparently tasked with moving boxes around and then told the prosecution he had not moved boxes around. The additional Charges broadened the indictment brought by a Florida grand jury in June alleging the former president held on to sensitive military secrets. He knew he shouldn't have retained access to shared them with others in directed his staff to help him evade authorities' efforts to get them back. They come as Trump races for separate federal Charges over efforts to undo his 2020 election laws.

0 (2m 37s):
Now, as I've said all along, there are two separate issues here. One is, is Trump guilty of the crimes for which he's charged? And the second is, should the Charges be brought, even if Trump is guilty of the Charges, facially speaking. So with regard to the first question, whether Trump is actually guilty of some of these Charges, again, the evidence seems pretty clear that Trump violated the law here. And we'll get to the second question in just a second, which is going to obviate the first question. But the first question, which is whether Trump violated the law, if Jack Smith has actual testimony that the document that Trump was waving around on that tape where he is talking about how he could have declassified the document, but he didn't declassify the document. So it's still technically classified, but here it is and he's showing it to people who don't have any sort of classification status if that's what happened, and if Jack Smith can prove that, if he has the evidence to prove it beyond the actual tape, then presumably that will be an element of guilt when it comes to evidence that this maintenance worker was actively wiping security footage in order to prevent Donald Trump from being indicted on precisely these sorts of Charges wipe the evidence of, for example, Donald Trump moving the documents around.

0 (3m 41s):
Now, here's the thing about this whole case. All of this was easily avoidable. The, the, the reason to be angry at Trump here is not really his behavior so much as it is the insanity of knowing that he's got the world's biggest target on his back. He's likely to run for reelection again. And, and he decides that he's going to do all of this under the assumption that no one is gonna come after him. The the assumption of impunity here is just foolish. Again, as, as a person who's prominent in politics, I overpay my taxes because the last thing that I want is to be put under the scrutiny of Joe Biden's I r s. Well, Donald Trump is way more of a target than I am personally. So why in the world would he be so careless and and so clumsy as to do all of these things and then do them on tape also like that? That's why you should be upset at Trump, right? The, the crimes themselves like messing with the classified documents, not turning them back in.

0 (4m 25s):
He wasn't turning 'em over to Russia. As I said, from the very beginning, the entire case is Donald. Trump likes things and then he keeps them Donald. Trump is like, here's the thing, it's a really nice thing. It's a good, it's a good thing. I want it. It's mine. They call it a thing. It's a thing, right? That that's Donald Trump's he, he does this all the time and he literally just had to give a bunch of antiquities back to the Israeli consulate because he had kept the antiquities, right? It was, it was like a bunch of like 2000 year old artifacts and Trump had been handed them at the White House and then he decided he was gonna like keep 'em. Why was he, was he going to hand those over to the Russians as spy material? No, he likes things, he keeps them, he's kinda a hoarder. So the notion that he was actively sort, sort of spy for China or Russia, that these classified documents, he was keeping them on hand who could do something nefarious and terrible with them, that's not true.

0 (5m 12s):
And so what you end up with is he mishandled classified documents because Donald Trump is clumsy and doesn't care about the, the ramifications legally. But also this is not somebody who's seeking to disseminate the nuclear codes to the Russians or the Chinese or something. And so with all of that in mind, this brings us to the second question, which is whether Donald Trump should have been charged on this stuff at all. Because this is the most perilous political prosecution in American history. you have the current president of the United States, his D O J, and make no mistake, it is still his D O J, his d o j prosecuting the guy he just ran against and his probable future opponent in the 2024 race. That's kind of astonishing stuff. And again, put aside for just one moment the actual elements of the crime because when you actually read the Charges here, when you read what Trump did, I, I think that it's fairly clear that Trump did many of the things that he's accused of.

0 (6m 3s):
But that's not really the question. The question is why he's being charged with it at all. Again, I'm looking at the, at the actual Charges here and, and the Charges openly discuss what exactly he was doing with the documents, how he was sort of messing around with the documents. So according to this actual document, this is the indictment document quote on June 3rd, 2022 when FBI agents were at Mar-a-Lago to collect the documents with classification markings from Trump attorney one and Trump attorney three, the agents observed there were several surveillance cameras located near the storage room. On June 22nd, 2022, the D O J emailed an attorney for Trump's business organization, a draft grand jury subpoena requiring production of certain security camera footage from Mar-a-Lago, including footage from cameras on ground basement where the storage room is located.

0 (6m 43s):
The next day, Trump called to Vera and they spoke for approximately 24 minutes. On Friday, June 24th, the D O J emailed the attorney for Trump's business organization the final grand jury subpoena requiring the production of all surveillance records. That same day Trump attorney one spoke with Trump by phone regarding the subpoena for security camera footage. At 3:44 PM that day, Walt NTA received a text message from a coworker Trump employee number three, indicating Trump wanted to see Nada. A couple of hours later he changed his travel schedule and began to make arrangements to go to Palm Beach, Florida instead now to then provided inconsistent explanations to colleagues for his sudden travel to Florida. He texted one person he would not be traveling with Trump the next day and then he used shushing emojis at 9 48 that night. He texted a secret service agent, he had to check on a family member in Florida after he arrived in Florida.

0 (7m 25s):
June 25th, he texted the same secret service agent. He was in Florida working around the same time June 24th, NATO was making his travel plans now to and Delora contacted another Trump employee whose director of information technology at Mar-a-Lago as follows at 5 0 2 Now to send TE text messages to Trump's employee asking, Hey bro, you around this weekend, about three minutes later now to text to Olive Oliveira saying, Hey brother, you working today? Delora responded, yes, I just left NATA then called DO Lavera. They spoke for a couple of minutes at 5 0 9 Trump employee four texted a response to nata. I'm a local entertaining some family that came to visit. What's up? NATA said, okay, cool. No biggie, just wanna see if you were around. Enjoy bro. Do Lavera texted Trump employee number four. Hey buddy, how are you? Walter called me early today saying he was trying to get in touch.

0 (8m 7s):
I guess he's coming down tomorrow. I guess he needs you for something. Trump employee four said, I don't know what it's about. And then about 7:00 PM that night Trump employee four texted out a bro, if you need me, I can get away for a few. Just let me know now to respond. It sounds good. Thank you. The next day now to travel from Bedminster to Palm Beach Del LA ETT told the valet at Mar-a-Lago that N it was coming down Delo Vera asked Trump employee five not to tell anyone N it was coming down because Nada wanted the trip to main secret. Delora then told Trump employee number five it to Nado wanted Delora to talk to Trump employee four to see how long camera footage was stored. Nada went to Mar-a-Lago, met with DO Lavera. This is on June 25th at the Mar-a-Lago Club. Apparently now to in de Lara went to a security car guard booth where surveillance videos displayed on monitors, walked through the flashlight through the tunnel where the storage room was located and observed and pointed out the surveillance cameras.

0 (8m 52s):
On Monday, Delora walked to the IT office and requested that the Trump employee step away from the office. So de Olive Olivea and the Trump employee could talk at 9:49 AM apparently that Trump employee and Delora left the area of the IT office together and walked through a basement tunnel. Delora took Trump employee four to a small room known as an audio closet. And then they had an exchange in which Delora asked how many days the server retained footage. Delora then Trump told Trump employee for the boss wanted the server deleted. And then Delora texted, nada, are you working today? And they're going back and forth. And finally apparently the footage ends up essentially being erased. There's an attempt to erase the footage. Okay, so that is what the actual indictment suggests.

0 (9m 34s):
Now, second question. Should Trump be indicted for this stuff at all? Well, let's look at the timeline. Literally yesterday, the Hunter Biden plea deal collapses and it collapses because the Hunter Biden plea deal is garbage and the D O J knows it's garbage and the D O J is lying to the judge about it being garbage. And the judge discovers that and then she blows up the deal and one day later, the special counsel Jack Smith dumps a bunch of additional Charges on Donald Trump. Does that seem suspicious to you? It should seem particularly suspicious given once again that Hillary Clinton is the standard by which all of this must be judged. Hillary Clinton did the exact same thing as Donald Trump in this case. She was not prosecuted. James Comey went out of his way not to prosecute Hillary Clinton, despite the fact that she too violated the obvious letter of the law and the spirit of the law, by the way.

Ruff Greens (10m 18s):
And she was let off the hook. We'll get to that momentarily first. We love our dog happy. He is a delightful doggie. Yesterday he was playing with the kids and rolling around the carpet and I thought, I want happy to live a long, healthy life. This is why we give him rough Greens every single morning. The dog food you've been giving your dog, that's dead food. It has very little nutritional value that brown food is not exactly screaming at nutrition, but green food does. Rough Greens boost happy food back to life. It can do the same for your dog. You don't have to go out and buy new dog food, just sprinkle rough Greens on their food every day. It contains all the necessary vitamins and minerals your dog is not getting from their regular dog food. Happy loves his rough Greens. He eats them with alacrity. Rough Greens, the only supplement your dog will ask for by name. Rough Greens, you, you get it 'cause it's it's rough naturopathic. Dr. Dennis Black, the founder of Rough Greens, he's so confident this product will improve your dog's health. He's offering my listeners a free Jumpstart trial bag. Go to free rough Greens dot com slash Ben. Let rough Greens bring your dog's food back to life. That's free. R U F F Greens dot com slash Ben today. Or call 8 3 3 MY DOG 33. That is 8 3 3 MY DOG 33 today. That is free rough Greens dot com slash Ben. And when you do that, you are going to get a free Jumpstart trial bag. Again that is free rough Greens dot com slash Ben today or call 8 3 3 MY DOG 33.

0 (11m 24s):
Okay, so we get to the second question now. So the first question, did Trump fulfill the elements of the crime and did he do the crime on tape? I mean it appears that, yeah, I mean be the available evidence if Jack Smith's got the goods, he's got the goods. But that is a separate question from whether the prosecution of Donald Trump should move forward because I remind you James Comey let Hillary Clinton off the hook for the same exact stuff, like the same exact stuff. Flashback 2016, November 6th, Paul Sperry reports for the New York Post that Hillary Clinton directed her maid to print out classified materials. So the idea here is that Donald Trump exposed classified materials that he knew were classified to people who were not within classification status, right?

0 (12m 5s):
He's over at Bedminster and he's waving around documents saying these are classified. Okay? Okay, but here's the problem. Hillary Clinton routinely as Secretary of State, while serving in the government without the power of Declassification, asked her made to print out sensitive government emails and documents, including ones containing classified info from her house in Washington DC According to both emails and FBI memos, the housekeeper had no security clearance to handle such material. In fact, marina Santos was called on so frequently to receive emails. She may hold the secrets to email gate if only the FBI and Congress would subpoena her and the equipment that she used. Clinton apparently expected this Filipino immigrant to handle state secrets. Further opening the Democratic presidential nominee to criticism that she played fast and loose with national security. She requested that Santos print out draft of her speech, confidential memos and call sheets.

0 (12m 48s):
Those would be background information and talking points prepared for the Secretary of State in advance of a phone call with the foreign head of state. Please ask Marina to print for me. In am Clinton emailed top aid Huma Abadin regarding a redacted 2011 message marked sensitive but unclassified in a classified 2012 email dealing with the new president of Malawi, another Clinton Aid, Monica Hanley advised Clinton, we can ask Marina to print this. Revisions to the Iran points was the subject of a classified April, 2012 email from Clinton to Clinton from Hanley. In it the text reads, marina is trying to print for you. Both classified emails were marked confidential. Santos also had access to a skiff, the sensitive, the sensitive Compartmented information facility that diplomatic agents set up at Whitehaven. According to FBI notes from an interview with whom Abadin from within the skiff, Santos would collected documents from the secure facsimile machine for Clinton.

0 (13m 36s):
She'd walk into the skiff, get the classified faxes, and then hand them to Hillary Clinton. Apparently the FBI noted that Clinton periodically received the Presidential daily brief via the secure facts. That is a top secret document that is created by the C I A and other US intelligence agencies. Okay, so Hillary Clinton was having her Filipino made pick up the stuff and, and hand it to her and print it out for her. Is that mishandling classified? According to James Comey, it is not criminal mishandling of classified information. Well what about Donald Trump telling employees to wipe the server? Why and think you know where this is going. I think you know where this is going. You'll recall that all the way back in 2016, September of 2016, the FBI released documents from its investigation into whether former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton improperly sought or transmitted classified email.

0 (14m 24s):
This according to the Denver Post included, were notes from interviews with employees of Platte River Networks. That is the Denver firm. The Clinton family hired to host their personal email server four months after she left office. According to the FBI documents, in December, 2014, former chief of staff, Cheryl Mills, told the Platte River employee Clinton no longer needed access to emails older than 60 days. She also instructed the person modified the email retention policy on Clinton server to reflect this change. And unknown Clinton's staff member said she did not want the P s T file after the export and wanted it removed from the server. The Platt River employee did not delete the files or make their retention policy change until four months later after a March 2nd, 2015 New York Times story about Hillary's secret server Mills sent an email to Platt River Network referencing the preservation request from the committee on Benghazi.

0 (15m 4s):
Then sometime between March 25th and March 31st, 2015, the Platt River employee had an o bleep moment that the files weren't deleted. He then told the FBI, he deleted the Clinton archive mailbox from the p r n server and used bleach bit to delete the exported P ss D files he had created on the server system containing Clinton's emails. According to that FBI report, bleach bit scrubs a file out of existence to prevent recovery. The employee told the FBI in a May 3rd, 2016 interview, he was aware of the existence of the preservation request. The fact that it meant he should not disturb Clinton's email data on the p r n server. Clinton told the FBI she never deleted, nor did she instruct anyone to delete emails and was unaware of Platte River's deletions from March, 2015. So in other words, Clinton's defense to all this, as we told them months ago, they should delete it, right?

0 (15m 45s):
And then they just didn't do it on time, but the Platte River employee knew about it. So what you think that he actually was like, well, you know, now that I have an FBI request for the information and I made a booboo, probably I should violate the law and delete all the emails. You'll recall that Hillary Clinton was then asked about this and she famously joked about wiping an email server with a, with a cloth Here. we go.

3 (16m 4s):
Now all I can tell you is in retrospect, if I'd used a government account and I had said, Hey, you know, let's release everything, let's let everybody in America see what I did for four years, we would have the same arguments. But so that, that's all I could say. Tried to wipe the I I'm, I'm, you know, I don't, I have no idea. That's why we turned it over. We you said you were in charge of

4 (16m 28s):
It. You were the official in charge. Did you like the server?

3 (16m 31s):
What? Like with a cloth or something? I don't know. Well, no, you know how

4 (16m 33s):
It works digitally. Did you try

3 (16m 35s):
To write the whole I don't know how it works digitally at all. I do not have any. You try. You did not try.

0 (16m 40s):
Like with a cloth. You remember this and the entire meter like ha ha ha ha ha. Like with the cloth, like with the cloth? No, like with bleach pit where you wipe the servers, she was not prosecuted. So if she does the same stuff as Donald Trump and she does not get prosecuted and is explicitly let off the hook 'cause she's running for president and Donald Trump is being prosecuted for all of that, that does look like the double standard of justice that Donald Trump is complaining about and doesn't stop there. In just a second, we're gonna get to more indictments looming over President Trump, which ironically help him in the primaries and hurt him in the general.

Good Ranchers (17m 7s):
First it's time for our meat of it questions sponsored by Good Ranchers where we get to the meat of a hard hitting weekly question. So Good Ranchers ask with all the recent hearings, do you think aliens are disguising themselves among us? Well, if they are, they're not in Congress because there's no intelligent life in Congress. While aliens aren't disguising themselves on earth, one thing is for sure foreign meat can disguise itself as a product of the United States of America. Yes, grocery store shelves are riddled with meat from other countries disguised in a product of the U Ss A label. If you prefer to know without a shadow of the doubt where your meat comes from, instead of guessing, well, you know you need Good. Ranchers. They source 100% American meat. They deliver it to your door. No disguises no is just amazing. American beef, chicken and pork conveniently delivered when you need it. So what exactly are you waiting for? Enjoy real meat and real service today with Good Ranchers. Visit Good Ranchers dot com. Use MyCode Ben for 30 bucks off any box that is promo code Ben at Good Ranchers dot com. Good Ranchers dot com Is American Meat delivered? I know their stuff is amazing because they made me the only kosher steak they've ever made and lemme tell you it was unbelievable. It was so good. Visit Good Ranchers dot com. Use promo code Ben for 30 bucks off any box. That's promo code Ben at Good Ranchers dot com. Good Ranchers dot com Once again, American meat delivered.

3 (18m 10s):
Okay, so this is not the only criminal charge facing Trump down apparently yesterday, according to the New York Daily news barriers were actually erected outside a Fulton County courthouse in anticipation of possible indictments involving interference in the 2020 presidential election. Fulton County District Attorney founding Willis, who wants to make an name for herself, plans to charge twice indicted former president Donald Trump with crimes including witness tampering. According to the UK Guardian Willis asked a Georgia Superior Court chief judge in May to keep the courthouse free at the start of August leading to speculation Trump and his surrogates might be charged in connection with attempts to overturn the electoral loss he still refuses to accept.

0 (18m 42s):
Trump was recorded in January, 2021, pressuring Georgia's Secretary of State, Brad Raff Asperger to find enough votes to keep him in the White House following his defeat. So if that's all they have, that's not going to be sufficient because you have to show intent to actually do fraudulently create votes or throw out votes. Trump's saying, I know that there's enough votes for me to win and all you have to do is find me the votes that I know exist. That goes to intent, as I've said a thousand times with regard to Trump. Intent is a real problem in proving crimes against Donald Trump because he's uniquely capable of convincing himself of things and he, he does this all the time, right? What Donald Trump thinks in the moment is precisely what Donald Trump thinks in the moment. This is the thing people love about him. It's all the thing people hate about him. Trump is fully authentic.

0 (19m 23s):
The thing he thinks right now is exactly the thing he thinks five seconds later it may change, but in the moment he may actually believe that he won the election. And so it's impossible to say he actually knew he lost the election and therefore he was trying to fraudulently find votes. He can't do that because he may very well have thought he won the election, the votes existed and he was just encouraging people like I know it's there. I know my car keys are somewhere in the house. Just find the car keys right? That is not the same thing as I know the car keys are not anywhere in the house, and now I'm making you search for the car keys fraudulently until you steal the neighbor's car. Keys not quite the same thing. The grand jury was sworn in on July 11th to hear evidence against Trump and his allies that may have also included other communications with state officials and the selection of fake electors. Former attorney Rudy Giuliani confessed in a court filing this week.

0 (20m 3s):
He lied about Georgia election workers he'd accused of trying to sabotage Trump's reelect efforts. But the question is, did Giuliani lie about that to Trump also? So if Giuliani admits, yeah, I knew the election was lost, I was lying when I accused X, Y, and Z of doing these things. If Giuliani said that if he lied to Trump also, then Trump would've been under the misimpression that stuff was true. So when Trump repeated that, then presumably Trump would not have the intent requisite to actually charge him with a crime. So we still have that case looming over Trump and then we also have a second case looming over Trump. That looming case is the January 6th indictments that Jack Smith is likely to bring. So this would make four ongoing federal cases and one state, well, three ongoing federal cases and one state case against Donald Trump.

0 (20m 45s):
The state case would be the ridiculous Manhattan DA Alvin Bragg bringing a case against Trump for campaign finance violations in New York, which is absolute garbage and seriously trumped up. The second is the classified documents case where Trump may very well have committed the crime, but it's very clear that Hillary Clinton was not charged for the exact same crime. The third case would be this Fannie Willis case in Georgia where again, it's gonna be very difficult to prove the intent necessary to convict Trump of a crime unless they can actually show some sort of obstruction of justice threats to witnesses or something like that. And fourth would be the January 6th case that Jack Smith presumably is about to bring against Donald Trump.

ZipRecruiter (21m 15s):
We'll get to all of that in just one second, but first the best place to hire is with ZipRecruiter, a hiring partner focused on you and your needs from pricing to technology, everything ZipRecruiter does is for you right now. You can try them for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. ZipRecruiter smart technology identifies the best matches for your job and lets you invite candidates. You really want to apply to your job before other businesses can snag them. I love how their pricing is really straightforward. You can stick to your budget with no surprises. Hire the best with the help of a partner who's all about you with ZipRecruiter. Four out of five employers who post on ZipRecruiter will get a quality candidate within day one. Just go to this exclusive web address Try ZipRecruiter for FREE ZipRecruiter dot com slash at DailyWire, we've been using ZipRecruiter ourselves for years here at The Daily Wire, and if you're looking for a job, ZipRecruiter's also a great place to look. Again, that's ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire ZipRecruiter indeed the smartest way to hire. They make your job much, much simpler. They sift through the resumes, they find you the best possible employees. They get them to you. Four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter again, get a quality candidate within day one. ZipRecruiter is the smartest way to hire. Go to ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire in anticipation of that case arising.

3 (22m 17s):
Apparently, according to the Associated Press, lawyers for Trump met Thursday with members of Jack Smith's team ahead of a potential indictment over the former president's efforts to overturn the results of the 2020 election. Trump himself confirmed the meeting in a post on his truth. Social network writing quote, my attorneys had a productive meeting with the D O J this morning explaining in detail I did nothing wrong, was advised by many lawyers and that an indictment of me would only further destroy our country. He added no indication of notice was given during the meeting. So there was a lot of talk this week that there would be an indictment of Trump on January 6th, Charges coming down. It may well be that a lot of that information was about the new Charges that were actually brought by Jack Smith in the classified documents case that the January 6th indictment is actually not right around the corner here.

0 (22m 53s):
It was not immediately clear what was discussed at the meeting, though similar sit down with lawyers occurred in the days before Trump was indicted last month on the classified documents case Thursday's meeting included Trump attorney John Lara said the person familiar with the case who spoke to the AP on the condition of anonymity to describe a private gathering, Laura said in a Fox television interview this week, his client had done nothing wrong. The status of that secretive grand jury proceeding remained unclear just by building speculation the criminal case could be near. So it's unclear when that is going to come down. It's also unclear what exactly the Charges are going to be. They've been talking about using a fraud charge, which seems really, really weak to me. I don't see how legally they charged him with defrauding the government. Usually when that's done it's it's because you faked votes or because you stole votes or something.

0 (23m 34s):
Not because you made a bad legal request for the overturning of state certified votes, that that would presumably fall under free speech as much as it is untrue. Theoretically, they could go after him for obstruction, but they'd actually have to show they depressed witnesses, which again is a pretty high bar. And then they've been using like Civil War era, civil rights violations. I, I don't see how any of these apply. It's gonna be a very, very big stretch if that's all Jack Smith has to charge on. So to sum up of the four cases, only one of them appears to have serious legal merit at this point. Again, we don't know about the Georgia case because the indictment hasn't come down yet, so we can't actually adjudicate what they've got or what they're charging him with. But just from the speculate, so we have two that have not yet been filed and we have two that have been filed. Of the two that have been filed.

0 (24m 14s):
The Manhattan DA's case is absolute crap. The case that has been filed in Jor in Florida with regard to classified documents, it, it appears that they, they have Trump may dead to rights, evidentiary speaking, but politically speaking, which may make a difference with the jury. Hillary did like the exact same thing. I mean so much so that Donald Trump in that case apparently told his lawyers he loved what Hillary's lawyers did and he'd love to do it also. So I mean, again, if the idea here's the D O J does not charge Hillary, but they definitely charge Trump. That double standard of justice may be a jury nullification play, particularly in the state of Florida where Trump remains very, very popular. So there is that which has led to speculation that Jack Smith will file very similar Charges in New Jersey where Trump will get a much less favorable jury.

0 (24m 54s):
But all it takes is one juror juror to actually say no to basically scuttle the case. So that's the one with merit. But the, the one with merit becomes unmeritorious. Once you add in Hillary Clinton to the mix, then you have the Georgia case. That Georgia case can be very hard to prove. We haven't seen the Charges and Fanny Willis appears to be a very politically motivated Prosecutor. And finally you have the January 6th case that Jack Smith is thinking of charging. Apparently we don't know what the Charges are there, but those appear to be a stretch as well. So how does this break down politically? Well, obviously it benefits Trump in the Republican primaries because right now the argument against Trump would be that these indictments hurt him against Joe Biden. But Joe Biden is running super duper weak right now. Ironically, the greatest enemy of Ron DeSantis campaign is Joe Biden's weak polling numbers because the fact is that the chief appeal of Ron DeSantis, that he runs better against Biden in the swing states than Trump does by every available poll.

0 (25m 45s):
But if Biden is running at 40%, well that doesn't matter too much. I mean, right now the spread on the Biden Trump race, it has them both in the low forties. I mean, right now, I mean I'm looking at the, the latest R C P polling average has Biden up 0.9 percentage points on Trump. And the last four polls are Trump plus five Biden plus two Trump plus four Biden plus four. So everything is within margin of error. Meanwhile, the real clear politics polling average on Biden versus DeSantis has Biden up 1.9 points. In other words, he's not running all that much ahead of Trump in the general elect efforts right now because Biden is running so low. So what that means that a lot of Republicans are likely to think that Trump can beat Joe Biden, so it's not actually hurting him with Republican voters.

0 (26m 28s):
These indictments also, it's adding fuel to the fire because the fact is that pretty much all Republicans mean included think that Donald Trump is being targeted unfairly over a lot of these cases that put aside his bad behavior. It's very obvious there's a double standard of justice here that is obviously being applied. And so because of that, it's likely to boost him in the primaries, which is the reason he has incredibly durable numbers. Everybody right now is focusing in on Ron DeSantis and DeSantis underperformance in the Republican primaries thus far in the Republican primary polling. But the reality is that the story is not DeSantis underperforming. The story is Trump's absolute durability in this polling. Trump has not dropped in any significant way below like a 10 point lead for months and months and months.

0 (27m 9s):
And right now his current lead on the rest of the field, because remember, Dessan ain't the only competitor. The his lead on the rest of the field is 34 points. So he's locked and loaded. I mean, that dude is just cruising to the nomination right now unless something changes and that thing is not going to be the indictments. So ironically, the indictments help Trump in the primaries. Now will he get convicted? I mean, it's pretty obvious he could be. I mean, sure he is got a Manhattan jury in the Alvin Brad case. The Florida case, as I say before, is pretty legally airtight, but there's a double standard. So that one's up in the air, we don't know what's gonna happen. Is Trump actually gonna be even indicted in Georgia if he is, does that, does that trial take place in Fulton County, Georgia, like in Atlanta?

0 (27m 49s):
Because that'd be very bad for him, obviously. Is there gonna be another case in New Jersey like we don't know what the actual outcome of all of this is going to be. With that said, is it likely to hurt Trump politically inside the Republican Party? Really the answer is no, because a lot of Republicans right now would rather basically use Trump as their instrument of revenge. And Trump knows this. Again, Trump has an inherent skill, and this is his true instinctive skill. Trump has an inherent skill of knowing. He has like a, a really emotionally visceral connection to his base. He, he knows that his people want him to be the revenge in, in 2016, he was a pulsating middle finger. Well, right now he, he says, I am your revenge, I'm your vengeance. And now there may be a bunch of people in the country who are like, I don't wanna be anybody's vengeance.

0 (28m 30s):
Like, I don't know. I don't, I don't want vengeance. What I really want is just good governance and, you know, maybe some good policies, but increasingly in the United States that that is a minority of people. Or at least it is a, it is a silent majority and the silence makes a rather large difference. And meanwhile, again, the double standard of justice is being very obviously applied because at the same exact time that all of this pressure is being brought to bear on Trump, Hunter Biden, the D O J went out of its way. I mean, truly went out of its way to try to cut a sweetheart deal with Hunter. There was just no question about this. I mean, so much so that as we discussed yesterday on the program, Hunter's plea bargain was so lenient that the judge in the case was like, are you guys even willing to publicly say that you plea bargain this way are even? And, and the judge was like, no, that's really what happened.

0 (29m 12s):
What apparently ha happened, as I said yesterday, is the prosecutors tried to hide their blanket immunity clause in a crazy and unprecedented tactic, but then were exposed by the judge, right? The, the Biden D O J tried to let Hunter off the hook, but they tried to do so quietly. So in the actual publicly available plea bargain had said nothing about immunizing Biden Hunter from all of these Charges like foreign agents registration act violations or investigations into foreign foreign cashing of checks, right? All, all that kinda stuff was not included in the plea bargain. It was included in the agreement for diversion on the gun charge. So the idea was, it said in the diversion agreement that as part of the diversion agreement, he's immunized from the gun Charges and anything else that was investigated in this plea bargain over here on the tax Charges and then the tax Charges, it didn't say anything about that.

0 (30m 2s):
It just said he's immune from the tax Charges. So that the judge was like, well, I I can't, I can't do that. Like you appear to be, you don't even have an agreement publicly on what it is that he's immunized from. And the D O J was like, well this is kind of embarrassing. We can't be publicly exposed to be handing Hunter Biden goodies while his father is president of the United States. So we're just gonna blow up the plea bargain. And at that point, Hunter Biden's attorneys basically pulled out. So that, that is the actual story here. But because this plea bargain was blown up by the judge, now this is gonna reopen a bunch of cans of worms for the Biden administration. The Biden White House. According to Sarah Bedford, investigative reporter for the Washington Examiner, for example, Hunter Biden worked closely with multiple people who disclosed their lobbying for foreign companies under the Foreign Agents Registration Act, raising questions about whether he broke the law by not registering himself for doing the same work.

0 (30m 49s):
He lobbied US officials alongside many others who did not register under Fara for that for work debt clearly involved advocacy that would trigger Fara requirements. The focus on Hunter Biden's foreign lobbying grew more intense this week when a judge in Delaware pressed prosecutors about whether they were still investigating the president's son for alleged Fara violations a day in court that was supposed to mark the end of Hunter Biden's legal troubles may have been the start of even more because the judge rejected that plea. And now the federal prosecutors are like, yeah, we may look into Fara. So some of the individuals who are actually working with Bo, with Hunter and advocating for Barisma, where hunter's being paid 83 grand a month to do nothing except have the last name Biden and call his daddy on the phone. Sometimes they registered their work under Farah after prodding from the Justice Department. So many of the people working directly with Hunter and lobbying on behalf of Barisma were forced to register under the Farah Act, under the Foreign Agents Registration Act.

0 (31m 36s):
And the D O J forced them to do that. Hunter did not. I mean that, that's kind of amazing. I mean that's pretty obviously a Fara violation by Hunter Biden Blue Star Strategies apparently was a, a firm that was associated with Barisma. It was under investigation by the D O J, why they were permitted to file foreign lobbying disclosures years after the work took place, rather than face penalties for their future. Their failure to do so remains unclear, Sally Painter and Karen Montano, the Blue Star Strategies consultants, whose emails reflect a close working relationship with Hunter on Barisma registered as foreign lobbyist representing Barisma Chief Michael Zeki. In 2022, Montano and Painter disclosed to the government, they helped set up meetings between Cheskys attorney and State Department officials according to Farrah documents.

0 (32m 18s):
Those meetings occurred in 2016 while Joe Biden was still Vice President. Blue Star Strategies, Hunter and Hunter's business partners worked closely to boost Barisma image across many fronts. Blue Star strategies did not register under Farrah in real time. The consultants work with Barisma had come to the intent attention of investigators on that Hunter Biden case. According to the I r s whistleblower, Gary Shapley Shapley testified the Justice Department slow walk to search floor B before Blue Star Strategies emails in 2020. And that Leslie Wolfe Prosecutor in the Delaware US Attorney's office accused of misconduct told investigators it would likely not get approved. But the Fair Documents paints Remont did eventually file suggest specific meetings in contacts in which Hunter Biden was involved, met the DO j's definition of foreign lobbying.

0 (32m 59s):
So it is very obvious that presumably Hunter should have registered as a foreign agent and he didn't. And now he's exposed because again, the D O J had to kill this deal. So it may very well be that there is more to drop on Hunter Biden. But meanwhile, while all this is happening with Hunter Biden and the D O J is trying to pass some cookies and, and create sweetheart deals for him, while all of this is happening, they're going after Donald Trump representative James Comer, Republican of Kentucky, and he pointed out yesterday on the verdict with Ted Cruz, that six major banks flagged 170 suspicious activity reports about the Bidens to the Treasury Department.

5 (33m 36s):
A suspicious activity report is when the bank files notice with the treasury cabinet that they suspect their client has committed a crime. Does it mean they committed a crime? They they have a strong suspicion that a crime was committed. So it's to protect the bank as well. So

6 (33m 52s):
How frequently do these things happen? Very

5 (33m 54s):
Seldom, despite what the Washington Post or in their defense of the Biden, they say, well, everybody has a suspicious activity report that is baloney. I was on a bank board for 10 years. I think we issued two over the course of, of 10 years. And,

6 (34m 7s):
And how many were were issued concerning Hunter Biden and Joe Biden and the Biden family

5 (34m 12s):
Over 170. They were, they were direct

6 (34m 16s):
But. you were at a bank and they issued two in 10 years. How many years a decade. If

5 (34m 19s):
You, if you had two sars, they're called sars in, in the banking industry, if you had two SARS against you, it would be hard for you to open an account somewhere.

0 (34m 29s):
I mean, it's amazing stuff. So have the media treated all of this? They've treated this by pretending that nothing bad is happening at all. We'll get to that in just one second.

Policy Genius (34m 36s):
First, you need life insurance. Okay? It's just a smart thing to do. You got dependents, you gotta make sure that they're okay if something, God forbid, happens to you. This is why you need Policy Genius Policy Genius makes it easy to compare life insurance quotes from top companies and find your lowest price. Lemme tell you from personal experience, it is very satisfying to check life insurance off your to-do list because it's kind of an annoying thing kind of hanging over your head and every day you don't do it is a day that you are taking a risk you don't need to take instead get covered with Policy Genius. With Policy Genius, you can find life insurance policies starting in just 25 bucks per month for a million bucks in coverage. Some options offer coverage in as little as a week and avoid those unnecessary medical exams. Policy Genius licensed agents work for you, not the insurance companies, which means they don't have an incentive to recommend one insurer over another so you can actually trust their guidance. There are no added fees. Your personal information remains private. Your loved ones deserve that financial safety net and you deserve a smarter way to find and buy it. Head over to Policy Genius dot com slash appar or click the link in the description, Get your free life insurance quote. see how much you could save. That's policygenius.com/ Shapiro. Again, policygenius.com/ Shapiro. Go check them out right now and get the life insurance you and your family need to make sure that they're provided for in case, God forbid, something happens to you

0 (35m 40s):
. Also, when Dr. Jordan Peterson made the decision to join DailyWire Plus, it was a major win. For those of us who champion free speech and intellectual debate, he has had one year of unparalleled output. His contributions have set new standards that remain unmatched by any other platform. DailyWire Plus now has a vast array of exclusive Jordan content offering hundreds of hours of captivating stuff that you're not gonna find anywhere else. Jordan has created thought provoking works that reshape your perspective on life. Does include vision and destiny, marriage, dragons, monsters and men, tons of other stuff and much more coming. He got a book of Exodus series, he got his logos and literacy and like I say, that's only the beginning. We haven't mentioned his Beyond Order lecture series, his extensive archives of lectures and podcasts. It's the absolute compendium of all things Jordan Peterson related. Plus there's even more new exclusive content on the horizon.

0 (36m 21s):
I'm excited about that stuff. Wait till you see it. By becoming a DailyWire Plus member, you'll embark on an unforgettable experience that will fuel your thirst for knowledge, inspire personal growth like never before. Go to DailyWire dot com slash subscribe. Become a member today. Okay? Meanwhile, the media, the White House, they're treating the Hunter stuff like it is not only no big deal, but they're offended if you ask questions about it. So yesterday, Kain Jean-Pierre World's worst White House press secretary, she suggested that hunter's a private citizen. Why are you all, why are you so concerned with Hunter? I mean, how dare you? Hunter is not a private citizen. He said the White House. He's squired along on every trip by Joe Biden. And again, he has texts to his own daughter talking about paying his daddy's bills. Come on, come on. How stupid do they think you are? Again, the answer is really, really stupid.

0 (37m 1s):
Here's Corin Shaere

7 (37m 3s):
Said this before. This is a personal matter. This is a, a Hunter Biden, as you know, is a private citizen. And this was done in an independent way. This investigation is being led by a Trump appointed Prosecutor.

0 (37m 17s):
Hmm. Well, I mean that, that's that. Clearly there's nothing to see here. The White House was asked about pardoning Hunter and they're like, no, no, no, we would never do that. Now here's the thing. Whenever the White House and I are going to do a thing, here's like a 75% shot that eventually they'll end up doing it.

8 (37m 30s):
I know you said not a lot's changed since yesterday and that it's a personal matter. But from a presidential perspective, is there any possibility that the president would end up pardoning his son?

7 (37m 40s):
No. Well, is there I I just said no, I just answered, go ahead.

0 (37m 45s):
Okay. She just answered. There's there no, no possibility. Well, I mean, there's a little possibility. Is there not? They think a plea deal is gonna get worked. Is, is what this really means. And meanwhile, the media doing their best to make sure that no Serious questions are asked. So a, b, c news, n B C news, they, they were very worried about the g o p focus on Hunter. Again, so much Republican pouncing, that's always the story. The story is not the possible deepen abiding years long corruption between Hunter and Joe, while Joe was vice president. No, the story here is so much Republican pouncing. They're purring in their pouncing like the color kittens over here.

9 (38m 15s):
It's a moment that's a culmination of a years long federal investigation, a painful reminder of a dark chapter in the Biden family and the latest scene in a lure national scandal. The Republicans promise is far from

10 (38m 28s):
Oval. President Biden is continuing to stand by his son. He has repeatedly said that he is proud of him even saying that he has done nothing wrong. Republicans are making it clear they are not satisfied. They're calling on the judge to block that plea deal, insisting they will continue on with their investigations into claims that the president has used his political career to personally benefit, enrich, and protect his family.

0 (38m 50s):
Republicans

11 (38m 51s):
Not ready to move on. They are still aggressively pursuing an investigation into the younger Biden's business practices.

0 (38m 58s):
They're not ready. Why can't they just move on? Why can't they move on? Well, maybe because he's getting sweetheart deals from his daddy's d o j after presumably funneling millions of dollars to the benefit of his dad. May maybe it's that, maybe it's that NBC's Andrew Mitchell did the same thing. She actually apologized to Joe Biden's campaign co-chair Chris Coons for mentioning Hunter and Donald Trump in the same sentence. No, we could never do that.

12 (39m 23s):
So let's just be clear. One is about the conduct of a former president in office and the other is about a private citizen, the son of the current president. There's a stark difference.

13 (39m 34s):
No, you are absolutely correct and I should not have analogized those two things together in in my haste. There's no question that they are of very, very different proportions. There's no comparison.

0 (39m 48s):
There's no comparison. None, there's no comparison between Donald Trump post presidency misusing classified documents and just like Hillary Clinton did, by the way, while she was Secretary of state and n n none, n no similarity between that and Hunter Biden years long corruption scheme with his daddy, no similarity according to the media. Just let it go. Okay? Meanwhile, again, the Republicans are trying to figure out who they need to run against Joe Biden. Right now, Donald Trump is far and away the front runner, but I have to say the, the some of the attacks on DeSantis at this point are truly ss scarless. The most squirrels attack that we're seeing right now is this absurd and ridiculous attack on the Florida educational standards. There's this notion promulgated by Kamala Harris and the rest of liars in the media, that the Florida educational standards talk about the wonders and greatness of slavery, which is a lie.

0 (40m 33s):
It is not true. You'll recall that the original criticism is that the Florida State curriculum includes standards that teach, quote, how slaves developed skills, which in some instances could be applied for their personal benefit, which meant as is true, that slaves being incredibly resilient and being very often people who had to undergo severe hardship, like always severe hardship, that they used that opportunity to develop skills that could benefit them personally. That is not a, an upholding of the virtue of slavery. It's the opposite. Okay? But Kamala Harris then went out and lied about, oh my gosh, they're, they're talking about the magical benefits of slavery. There's only one problem. Here's what the AP African-American Studies official course framework says this year, quote, in addition to agricultural work, enslaved people learned specialized trades and worked as painters, carpenters, Taylors musicians and healers in the north and south.

0 (41m 24s):
Once free African Americans used these skills to provide for themselves and others, that is the exact same thing. The Associated Press has the exact same thing as the guidelines for the state of Florida. And yet Rhonda Dessan getting ripped up and down over all this heroes, DeSantis response to a reporter who tried to come after him on this particular issue.

14 (41m 44s):
Were there beneficial aspects to slavery?

15 (41m 46s):
That's not what the curriculum says. What do you think? What the curriculum? No, there's no, it's not. And the curriculum is very clear. you have, I think it's like 200 plus pages of all kinds of stuff that you can't read that have you read it?

14 (41m 60s):
So what's your opinion?

15 (42m 1s):
Have you read it? What's your,

14 (42m 2s):
You haven't read, IM asking your

15 (42m 3s):
Opinion. But you haven't read it. So I'm just, just making that clear. That makes it very clear about the injustices of slavery in vivid detail. So anyone that actually read that and then listens to Kamala would know that she's lying. And that particular provision about the skills that was in spite of slavery, not because of the AP course has made that same point. Other courses have made that same point. Nobody said anything about that. And Dr. Allen and those people will say, look, this is what was used Postbellum when these folks were doing stuff. So that was very, very clear. And I would just say, you know, people can can read it.

0 (42m 41s):
Of course, DeSantis is exactly right. That's not stopping the lies from being promulgated. This is why the Congressional Black Caucus is now pushing the White House. According to the ap, they're pushing the White House, the Justice Department, and the d o e to adopt an aggressive legal strategy to scrutinize recent changes to Florida's black history curriculum. It's an absurdity. So at the very least, you would expect that the same Republicans are so defensive of Donald Trump and his and his classified documents mishandling. They might be defensive of DeSantis when the media lie about them. Like at the very least, Republicans should defend each other when they're being lied about by the media. This is why I'm very disappointed in Tim Scott today. Tim Scott was asked about this, and he promptly sided with Kamala Harris and he sided with the, the Congressional Black Caucus. Here was Tim Scott

16 (43m 21s):
As a country founded upon the freedom, greatest deprivation of freedom of slavery. There's, there's no silver lining in freedom in slavery. The truth is that anything you can learn, that any benefits that people suggest you had during slavery, you would've had as a free person. Well, slavery was, was really about separating families, about mutilating humans and even raping their wives. It was just devastating. So I would hope that every person in our country, and certainly running for president would appreciate that. And listen, people have bad days. Sometimes they regret what they say and we should ask them again to clarify their positions.

0 (44m 2s):
That's ridiculous. I mean, that's Scott being disingenuous because he fully will knows what the, the story is with, with Florida's education curriculum. I understand it's a presidential race, but you know, it would, it would behoove Republicans to actually at some point defend people who are not actually doing the wrong thing. I mean, it's particularly true that Republicans should not be backing attacks on other Republicans on the basis of false racial nonsense, especially because, again, Democrats are doing that enough. So Cory Bush yesterday decided to shout at House Majority Whip Steve Scalise suggesting, like openly yelling on the floor that Steve Skelly's bills are racist. It's such a joke. I mean, the Democrats playing the race card on literally every element is so pathetic. It's really bad

17 (44m 43s):
If both sides won't, we still will do that work. And I would yield one more time to the gentleman.

18 (44m 52s):
Be in order.

17 (44m 54s):
Mr. Speaker, the house is not in order.

18 (44m 57s):
The house will be in order.

0 (45m 1s):
Okay? I mean, ridiculous stuff there from Cory Bush, but that's who she is. Meanwhile, Ilhan Omar, another member of the Rebal Squad, she actually went on Al Jazeera to explain that Americans should be afraid of white men. She, she's, she's a member of the tolerant and diverse squad. Is, is this terrible human being.

19 (45m 19s):
I would say our our country should be more fearful of, of, of white men across our country because they are actually causing most of the deaths within this country.

0 (45m 34s):
Man. She should be paying royalties to, to vocal grind. Everything is down here. In any case, Ilhan Omar doing this routine that you should be very fearful of white men. Imagine if the race is reversed. You wouldn't have to, you know exactly what would happen statistically speaking of course, if she's talking about violent crime, what she's saying is not true, but it doesn't matter whether it's true or not. She's a very diverse person and she's speaking on Al Jazeera, which of course is a place filled with diversity and, and wonder. And meanwhile, we now have breaking news over from the Facebook files. So Jim Jordan has now revealed a bunch of documents that, that have been discovered by Congress about the White House's activities vis-a-vis Facebook. According to the Wall Street Journal, Facebook removed content related to Covid to 19 in response to pressure from the Biden administration, including post claiming the virus was manmade.

0 (46m 19s):
According to internal com company communications viewed by the Wall Street Journal, the emails show Facebook executives discussed how they managed users posts about the origins of the pandemic the administration was seeking to control. Nick Clegg, company's president of Global Affairs wrote quote, can someone quickly remind me why we were removing rather than demoting or labeling claims that Covid has man made? And he says, we are under pressure from the administration and others to do more. This is a Facebook VP in charge of content policy. We shouldn't have done it. That is in July, 2021. Clegg's saying we shouldn't have removed this content. And another VP going, yeah, we shouldn't have. But the Biden White House wanted us to. That email and number of other such internal company communications were obtained by the judiciary committee, which has been investigating what g o p lawmakers say is the Biden administration's improper efforts to censor American's speech on social media about Covid and other topics.

0 (47m 4s):
White House says its discussions were aimed at promoting the adoption of vaccines and other public health goals. White House Press Secretary Karine, Jean-Pierre then said, we believe that social media companies have a critical responsibility to take account of the effects of their platform. Yeah, I know this is censorship by proxy. That's exactly what this was. That emails viewed by the Wall Street Journal, which had not been previously reported date to the spring and summer of 2021 when the White House was putting explicit pressure on Americans not only to get vaccinated, but not to disseminate information the White House disagreed with. Apparently after Joe Biden said that Facebook was killing people because of the quote unquote false information that they saw on Facebook. The tongue lashing caused Facebook to reevaluate its policies about Covid to 19 content discussions that involved high-level company officials including Nick Clegg and then C o o o's, Sheryl Sandberg, following the president's killing people comment, the Facebook VP circulated a memo assessing the difference between Facebook's content policies and the Biden administration's demands.

0 (47m 57s):
The Facebook VP said, quote, there's a likely gap between what the White House would like us to remove and what we are comfortable removing. As one example, the executive listed the White House's desire the company take action against humorous or satirical content that suggested the vaccines aren't safe. The Vice President wrote quote, the White House has previously indicated it thinks humor should be removed if it is premised on the vaccine having side effects. So we expect it would similarly wanna see humor about vaccine hesitancy removed. Clagg then wrote, I can't see Mark in a million years being comfortable with removing that. I wouldn't recommend it. That is amazing. So the White House was literally writing to Facebook and being like, stop the jokes about the vaccine. No jokes. Joking will be forbidden. There'll be no joking about the regime.

0 (48m 36s):
Amazing, amazing, amazing stuff. But again, this is In fact, a First Amendment violation when the government uses private companies as proxies to perform censorship, that is an, that is a violation of the First Amendment. Pretty damned clearly. Okay, time for a quick thing I like, and then some things that I hate. So things that I like today. So there's a, a good series on Apple tv. It's called Hijack Starts. Idris Elba, who's excellent, love Idris Elba and pretty much everything. And the entire series is about the hijacking of a passenger aircraft from the Middle East to London. And Idra Silva plays sort of a negotiator. He's sort of, he's the lead passenger on board who's attempting to, to figure out what exactly is going on. It's a little more complex than it seems because I don't wanna spoil anything.

0 (49m 19s):
But the, some of the hijackers have ulterior motives, which are not clear from the beginning. It's well filmed, it's very tense. It it's pretty clever. Definitely an enjoyable series that is, that is worth watching if you have the time hijack on Apple tv. Worth the watch. Okay, one more thing that I like. So I hate it for the employees, but I like it for the fact that there has to be pushback and pushback has consequences. Apparently Anheuser-Busch has announced it would be laying off 350 corporate employees on Thursday after months of poor sales fueled by conservatives boycotting Bud Light. The firm said the layoffs would affect less than 2% of its 18,000 employees. It wouldn't affect blue collar workers like warehouse staff and drivers. In a statement. This media reporting, c e o, Brendan Whitworth explained the company's leadership quote, never take these decisions lightly.

0 (50m 1s):
They were also resolved to ensure our organization continues to be set for future long-term success. All of this has been driven by the fact that they decided over at Bud Light that a great way of marketing to a bunch of blue collar white men was to market a man pretending to be a woman during the NCAA tournament. Sales have fallen 30%, 20, 23 compared to the year before. So well done. You right, you the consumer, good for you for demonstrating that you have some muscle and that you will not be insulted this way. Really good stuff. In fact, if you're Dylan Mulvaney at this point, you probably start threatening other companies that you might just spontaneously endorse their product. Great way to shake down companies. Sign a secret check to Dylan Mulvaney that Dylan Mulvaney doesn't endorse your product because if Dylan Mulvaney endorses your product, you may get your product clocked by 30% of its entire gross sales.

0 (50m 47s):
Solid stuff there. And again, good job for conservatives. You gotta pick examples, you gotta polarize and make examples of them. This is a Saul Olinsky tactic The left has been using literally for decades, and if they refuse to stop using it, then we also have to use it. I mean, there really is no other choice. Okay, time for a couple of quick things that I hate. So things that I hate today. Just an amazing, amazing sequence of events. When the 90 year old senator Diane Feinstein started launching into an unprompted speech, she was called upon to vote. It was a voice vote and she didn't know what was going on. So she just started giving a speech because she's no longer with us and everyone knows that, that Diane Feinstein is no longer with us, which means that she's just one of many John Fetterman cannot speak properly.

0 (51m 29s):
Mitch McConnell froze up and, and we got the, the apple spinning wheel of death the other day from Mitch McConnell. Nancy Pelosi has not been functional for quite a while. We got a president of the United States who appears to want to kill over every five seconds. So things are going great. Nothing says healthy body politic like a bunch of octogenarians who do not have proper brain function leading the country. It's like clearly everything is going well. We are a healthy country with young, vibrant leadership, obviously. Senator Patty Murray actually turned to Diane Feinstein and said to her, just say, I, she had to literally tell her what to do when her name was called to vote on the defense appropriations Bill. Diane Feinstein began reading from her prepared remarks leading to an awkward moment. She, she actually started saying, I'd like to support a guest vote on this.

0 (52m 10s):
It provides $823 billion. That's an increase of $26 billion for the defense department. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Murray jumped in and told Feinstein, just say I and Feinstein said, okay, I, which is like, we, we may as well just have robot Congress people at this point. Like, if you're a Democrat, you're just gonna vote Democrat anyway, so we don't need most of you. Like seriously, we could just cut the salaries by 100%. We could put a bunch of AI over there and they're just gonna vote the same way as the senators are gonna vote. Save ourselves a bunch of headache around here. Meanwhile, I, I will admit that I enjoyed the, this, this maybe should have gone in things I like because it's, it's just frankly hilarious. Representative Derek Van Orden, Republican of Wisconsin apparently ended up screaming obscenities at high school senate pages who were resting in the Capitol rot tunneler early Thursday morning.

0 (52m 54s):
He accused the teens of treating the space like a frat house, common room. A page transcribed from Van Norton's words shortly after he berated the group around midnight, apparently the congressman screamed, wake the F up, you little bleeps. What the F are you all doing? Get the F outta here. You're defiling the space you pieces of bleep. Who the F are you? When the teens answered, they were Senate pages. Van Norton reportedly reported vet and f who you are, get out, you jackasses, get out. Apparently alcohol was indeed a factor. Pray source. Here's a photo from last year's, last night of a bunch of alcohol in Van Norton's office. Apparently Van Norton and staff were heard partying loudly before he cursed, cursed out a group of teenage Senate pages. He then issued a statement saying, quote, the Capitol Roton has served as field hospital and countless union soldiers died fighting to free men in the Civil War. I've long set our nation's capital as a symbol of the sacrifice our servicemen and women have made for the country and should never be treated like a frat house.

0 (53m 39s):
Common room threatening a congressman with bad press to excuse poor behaviors, a reminder of everything that's wrong with Washington. Luckily, bad press has never bothered me. If it's the price I pay for standing up for what's right, then so be it. Apparently some of the members of the upper chamber were very, very upset. Very, very upset. Yes, because they are all, you know, big on the decorum. So you know more of this In fact. That's the last thing that Diane Feinstein did that I think was worthy of note is is that time that a bunch of like 13 year old kids were brought in by an interest group to jabber at her about global warming and they're like, well, our votes count. She's like, you can't vote. It was pretty fantastic. Alright guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be talking about the global boiling that apparently is happening, plus more scientific discoveries from the left.

0 (54m 19s):
If you're not a member, become member. Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.