ExpressVPN (0s):
Todays show is sponsor by ExpressVPN. Do. you like your web history being seen and sold to advertisers? No, me neither. Get ExpressVPN right now at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (8s):
On Sunday, an elderly Jewish man attending a pro-Israel rally in Thousand Oaks, California was killed after being allegedly hit in the head with a megaphone wielded by a pro Hamas protestor. That attack represents only the latest and most damaging anti-Semitic attack in the West in Sydney, Australia. Journalist Sheri Marson reports that a Jewish man was nearly beaten to death by a pro kamas mob and ended up in the hospital for four days with a concussion and four spinal fractures in France. A Jewish woman was stabbed twice in the stomach and a swastika dialed on her door. In Indiana, a pro kamas woman tried to drive a car into what she thought was a Jewish school. Normally, such events might spur nationwide conversations about antisemitism and the cost of radical rhetoric. After all according to the White House, a national conversation regarding Islamophobia has been made necessary by the murder of a six year old Palestinian Arab child in Michigan.

0 (54s):
But no, there's been no such conversation about any climate of hate. That's for one reason and one reason alone. The people doing the hating and the people hated those. Doing the hating are fans of Hamas, both radical Muslims and fellow travelers on the left. Those being hated are Jews, and as everyone of sophisticated moral Ben knows Muslims being disproportionately brown and disproportionately poor, and the majority and dozens of materially underperforming countries globally are victims and Jews being highly educated and high earning. And the majority and precisely one materially successful state are victimizers. That's always the math. Brown or poor equals oppressed white or successful equals oppressor. Being a member of the oppressed means you are a victim no matter how evil you are.

0 (1m 37s):
That is precisely why Congresswoman Rashida tb, a raging Jew hater, is now being treated as victim by many in the legacy media. TB is a sitting congresswoman, which means that by any standard, she's successful, but she's also brown and also hates the west, which means that she's a member of the oppressed class, and this means she can spout blood libels. She still maintains that Israel bombed a hospital in Gaza. Despite all evidence to the contrary, it means she can call for the utter destruction of the state of Israel, pushing the slogan from the river to the sea and the genocide that inevitably entails. It means she can blame Israel for Hamas' attack on Israeli civilians while claiming moral equivalence between a group that burns babies alive and a group that attempts to avoid civilian casualties. It means she can spend her career hobnobbing with open terror Supporters, and it means she can claim falsely that Israel is engaged in genocide and threatened President Biden over that false claim.

0 (2m 25s):
And then when called on her lies and her Jew hatred, she can shed crocodile tears. That's precisely what happened yesterday when a resolution sponsored by representative Rich McCormick of Georgia called for her censure, McCormick's resolution censure Taleb for promoting false narratives regarding the October 7th, 2023 Hamas attack on Israel and for calling for the destruction of the state of Israel. The resolution passed 2 34 to 180 8 with 22 Democrats voting in favor. This resolution according to Taleb and her allies is oppression. Rashida Taleb is the victim. Taleb is a Cry bully. To be more specific, she is a Cry Hamas snake. She supports the most egregious atrocities known to man, but hides behind her religion to claim immunity and then weeps about her supposed victimhood.

0 (3m 6s):
Here she was yesterday claiming that she was being silenced, and then of course, crying about it.

1 (3m 12s):
I will not be silenced and I will not let you distort my words. Folks forget, I'm from the city of Detroit, the most beautiful blackest city in the country where I learn to speak truth to power. Even if my voice shakes trying to bully or censor me won't work because this movement for a ceasefire is much bigger than one person. Mr. Chair, do you know what it's like to fear rising hate crimes? To know how Islamophobia and antisemitism makes us all less safe and worry that your own child might suffer? The horrors that six year old Wadi did in Illinois, I can't believe I have to say this, but Pa Palestinian people are not disposable.

0 (3m 57s):
They're the dears. Oh, and she's comforted by Ilhan Omar. Ah. Oh, oh. It's okay, Rashida. It's okay. You're you're strong Rashida.

1 (4m 8s):
We are human beings.

0 (4m 9s):
It's okay. You're

1 (4m 12s):
Just like anyone else.

0 (4m 15s):
No one said that. Palestinians are not human beings just like anyone else. They just said that Hamas is evil and should be destroyed, and she disagrees with that and believes that Israel is evil and ought to be destroyed. The take that she is a victim is weird, given that pretty much every major member of the Democratic Party rushed to her defense, Hakeem Jeffries, the Democratic minority leader, blamed extreme MAGA pushback for blowback against the Terrorist supporting Taleb.

3 (4m 38s):
Are you concerned about our use of that phrase for the I expressed concern about that and will continue to. What about

4 (4m 45s):
Extreme MAGA Republican agenda has nothing to do with the American people. They want to default on our debt, shut down the government, crash the economy, censure, Democrats, and avoid holding their own members accountable. This is who they are.

0 (5m 4s):
It's extreme MAGA agenda to say that, you know, from the river to the sea is bad. Representative Debbie Dingle of Michigan tried to claim that from the river to the sea is actually just open to interpretation, like a piece of abstract poetry, a piece of genocidal abstract poetry, but abstract poetry nonetheless, who knows what from the river to the sea means despite the reference to, you know, an actual river and in actual sea.

5 (5m 26s):
I spent all weekend in Michigan this last weekend talking to all the communities about the meaning of this phrase. And there are very strong feelings on all sides, and it's very clear that people interpret words in different ways. Personally, I choose not to use the phrase that is offensive to some and that many perceive as a threat, but I also take seriously living in a country that does not respect restrict for general lady's time has expired for speech.

0 (5m 58s):
What could it mean? Who knows? It's just, it's so vague from the river to the sea, and she spent so much time exploring it that she still doesn't know. Taleb's anti-Semitic fellow Hamas squad members joined in on the fun and games claiming victimhood on Taleb's behalf. Fellow Jew Hatter Ilhan Omar screamed about the unfairness supposedly suffered by Taleb.

6 (6m 16s):
What is true here is that every single one of them has not acknowledged the fact that Palestinians are dying in the tens of thousands, but will continue to say it's us who are not acknowledging humanity. Rashida will stand strong.

7 (6m 32s):
Ladies', time has expired. Palestinian

6 (6m 34s):
Movement will continue for liberation until every single

7 (6m 38s):
Gentle lady's time is expired has

6 (6m 40s):
The right

7 (6m 41s):
To gentleman from Maryland is recognized.

0 (6m 44s):
If you really think that that Han Omar cares about Palestinians living in liberty, then why exactly is she's standing up for Hamas, which keeps them under the thumb of a Terrorist tyranny. Also, imagine having to wake up to that at four o'clock in the morning if you're her brother Cory Bush. The BLM congresswoman from Missouri joined the club too, ranting in typically unhinged fashion about the horrors of supposed Islamophobia against Taleb. Here's the BLM Congresswoman.

8 (7m 6s):
It's outrageous that my colleagues are blatantly, blatantly attempting to silence the only Palestinian American representative right here. It's outrageous, but it's not surprising. And let me tell you, it's not surprising because this place is where 1700 members of Congress, this elected body enslaved black people. It's not surprising because they thought it was right. It's not surprising because this is a place where members continue to claim that the insurrection on the capitol just appeared to look like a normal tourist visit. It's not surprising because this is the place where our black and brown staff members repeatedly speak of experiencing racism and sexism. Islamophobia get pushed off at elevators, xenophobia more right here in this workplace.

8 (7m 49s):
This is the place, and let me say this, she mourns for the 1400. It's ready. The gentle

7 (7m 53s):
Lady's time has expired

8 (7m 54s):
Life. She mourns for the 10,000 and she will not stop. Nor

7 (7m 57s):
The gentle lady's time has expired.

8 (7m 59s):
She's fired now, and she takes the death threats that you all send. That that, that the

7 (8m 4s):
Gentle lady is no longer recognized. The gentleman from Maryland to her,

8 (8m 9s):
The desire to save lives is

0 (8m 11s):
Great. Isn't

7 (8m 12s):
This gracious gentlemen from Maryland is recognized?

0 (8m 16s):
Well, she definitely makes a very strong case that democracy is not the best system of selecting leadership. Taleb's tactic is Hamas' tactic writ small. Kamas started this conflict by murdering 1400 Jews, including babies, children, women and men. They still have 240 people kept in bondage in Gaza as their hostages. They openly brag about hiding rockets and terrorists beneath civilian centers. They're so open about it that even CNN anchors like Jake Tapper notice here was Jake last night.

9 (8m 41s):
So Hamas, which is the government of Gaza, based on their own words, A, they think the loss of Palestinian civilian lives is just the cost of liberation. B, they think that even though they're the government of Gaza, it's not their responsibility to protect Palestinian civilians. The tunnels are for themselves for fighting, not for civilians. And C, they're determined to continue attacking Israel the same way they did on October 7th, over and over and over, based on what they say. So for these reasons, Israel says, we can't have a ceasefire.

0 (9m 21s):
Okay? When even Jake Tapper is noticing, that means that it's pretty obvious. By the way, Kamasa says this stuff out loud. There's an article in the New York Times today quoting a top member of Hamas saying quote, Kamasi's goal is not to run Gaza and to bring it water and electricity and such. Kamas, the cassem and the resistance woke the world up from its deep sleep and showed that this issue must remain on the table. This battle was not because we wanted fuel or laborers, it did not seek to improve the situation in Gaza. This battle is to completely overthrow the situation. So Kamas commits a Terrorist atrocity, not caring about its own civilians, and then hides its own civilians in front of rockets. But when Israel inevitably has to kill civilians in the process of targeting terrorists, Hamas then sheds the falses of tears.

0 (10m 1s):
They put out tape showing people mourning they're dead caused by Hamas and the world largely falls for it. That's because the oppressor oppressed narrative is all consuming. It is all powerful. This narrative outweighs decency. It outweighs truth. For those who believe the narrative truth is of no consequence whatsoever. It's not even a tertiary value. So there will be no conversations about tone or hate speech or the obvious Jew hatred evidence on the streets of America's major cities, at least not with regard to Talib. There will be serious-minded conversations about how the evil MAGA movement is spreading Islamophobia for criticizing lib and stepping out of line will not be tolerated. That presumably is why after Senator Elizabeth Warren issued a tweet decrying Antisemitism, she was then forced to rush out another tweet decrying Islamophobia.

0 (10m 44s):
That is why the media are so studiously avoiding any language they might blame the killing of that Jewish man in Los Angeles Snick, who allegedly slammed elderly men in the head with a bullhorn. Here was the headline from the New York Times quote, Jewish Man dies after altercation at dueling protests in California. Weird I I actually don't know how he died or why. Here's the headline from AB, C News. Elderly Jewish Man dies after confrontation with pro-Palestinian protestors in Westlake Village. That's weird because a lot of people are confronting each other, but nobody's dying. So what happened? Here's BBC News's headline. Jewish Man dies after Dispute, a dueling Israel Palestinian protest. These are all the same outlets that claim that January 6th rioters had killed a police officer by slamming him in the head with a fire extinguisher.

0 (11m 25s):
The narrative must be protected at all costs. The victimizers are the victims, the oppressors are the oppressed, and as we all know, the victims and the oppressed must be excused for all of their myriad evils. In just one second, we'll get to the latest from the Middle East where there are now arguments between the Biden administration and the Israeli government over what happens with Gaza. When all of this is

Pure Talk (11m 47s):
done. Over the past few weeks, Pure Talk has been working toward alleviating $10 million in veterans debt by Veterans Day. Thanks to your support last week, they're 90% to that goal. With a few days to go, think about this, US military is made up of 100% volunteers. These are men and women who willingly sacrifice everything they have for the country. When they're done serving, they return home to a tight job market and outrageous living expenses. That's why I'm so happy a private company like Pure Talk has jumped into help. When you switch to Pure Talk Lightning Fast five G Network, they'll donate a portion of every new order to this noble cause. You can make a real difference just by choosing superior cell phone service. You get the best cell phone service and you're helping out something fantastic. Pure talk's plans start at just 20 bucks a month, offering unlimited talk text, more data, and mobile hotspot. Just go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro and make the switch today. Let's help ease the burden on the men and women who have given us so much. Visit Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro switchover to Pure Talk today. It's the right move. It's the American way. Visit Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro today. Again, that's Pure Talk dot com slash bre using Pure Talk for all my phone calls for a year at this point, it's great. My phone calls are crystal clear. Great Tower Network. Plus, you're helping out veterans Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro today.

My Patriot Supply (12m 51s):
Also, the world seems to be in a state of chaos. Well, now would be a great time to invest in your safety and wellbeing by securing your food storage right now. Go to prepare with Ben dot com. Start your three month emergency food supply. My Patriot Supply is your trusted partner for emergency preparedness. They're the country's largest preparedness company. They're more than equipped to stock your shelves. Whether it's a natural disasters, an emergency, or unforeseen circumstances. My Patriot supplies high quality food storage solutions ensure you and your loved ones are always well fed no matter what comes your way. Their bestselling three month emergency food kit provides delicious breakfast lunches and dinners that last up to 25 years in storage. You can even customize your supply with a mega protein kit with real meat or options that are gluten-free. These kits provide over 2000 calories every day. They're simple to prepare just to add some water, some heat, and then eat. If you order by 3:00 PM your food kit will ship it fast on the very same day with free shipping. Then you stick in the closet, forget about it, and then God forbid you need it. It's all ready to go. Invest in your safety and wellbeing. Again, go to prepare with Ben dot com. Start your three month emergency food supply. Go to prepare with Ben dot com right now. That's prepare with Ben dot com.

0 (13m 49s):
Okay, so the Biden administration is on the one hand saying many of the right things with regard to Kamas. So John Kirby, the spokesperson from the National Security Advisor, he says that ACS fired at the time is not appropriate, which of course is true.

10 (14m 5s):
The Prime Minister has also said, definitively no ceasefire unless there is a return of all hostages. Is that a reasonable position that he's taken? Yeah,

11 (14m 16s):
You'll have to talk to the Prime Minister. Again, we're not gonna characterize or armchair quarterback everything he's saying. We still believe that a general ceasefire is not appropriate at this time. And by general ceasefire, we're talking about everybody laying down their arms, you know, for an indefinite period of time in the anticipation of peace talks and some sort of negotiated settlement. And we just don't believe that it's the right time for that right now. We do think it is the time to continue to pursue pauses in the fighting of a temporary nature for specific purposes.

0 (14m 45s):
Okay, so he is right about that. Although when he says temporary pauses for humanitarian, Israel is already doing that. They've opened humanitarian corridors that Hamas then attempts to close by shooting. People are guarding the humanitarian corridors. John Kirby also was having none of the Israel's genocidal nonsense yesterday. Again, this is good stuff from the Biden administration. A rarity to hear from people like me here is John Kirby. Yesterday,

11 (15m 5s):
I, I heard this word, genocide, toss, toss around that. Hamas actually does have genocidal intentions against the people of Israel. They'd like to see it wiped off the map. They said so on purpose. So that's what, that's what's at stake here, and we're gonna keep making sure that Israel has that ability to do that. As for the voices, of course, we respect all different voices and perspectives on this, and we know that there's a lot of that there. There's a lot of high emotion here when it comes to what's going on. We have never shied away from criticizing our friends and partners when we believe it's warranted, and we'll continue to do that. We also believe that, that, that the, the best diplomacy, the the best progress in diplomatic pursuits is to do it privately and outside the public eye, and we'll continue to do that as well.

0 (15m 48s):
And Meanwhile, an all abi reporter went after John Kirby and Kirby shut them down. So again, there's a lot of positive stuff here from John Kirby

12 (15m 57s):
And criticize Israel when actually it is in violation of international humanitarian law and the Geneva Convention with due respect. John, some people think that you repeat what the Israeli army is Spokesman's saying. It's exactly what they're saying. You're repeating here. So how can you, why not these standing voices not just understanding them, and we have a channel 'cause we're a democracy? Why not? What's wrong with them? What's wrong with standing here and say, when Israel do something wrong? 'cause you're the best friend, you have leverage on them. Why not criticizing them? Your

11 (16m 29s):
Question presupposes that we've made some determination that the law of armed conflict has been violated, and I don't think we're not at that point. So

12 (16m 36s):
You disagree with the un

11 (16m 37s):
I I I would just tell you that we're, we're not gonna react in near real time to every event. Israel has a right and responsibility to defend itself, and we're gonna make sure they have the tools and capabilities to do that. Again, we're one month after this and we ought not forget what happened One month ago, 1400 people slaughtered in their homes at a music festival. And when Hamas decided to conduct operations, it was with the intent of killing people.

0 (17m 6s):
Okay? He's right about all of that. Now, the problem is that the Biden administration then goes completely unrealistic on what comes next. And they're unrealistic about again, what is happening in the streets of the United States. So yesterday, Kain Jean Pierre was asked from that same podium about people ripping down posters of kidnap victims, the hostages that are currently being held in Gaza, and apparently she had nothing to say about it. She's just awful at her job. As always,

13 (17m 29s):
A lot of videos of individuals who have been tearing down signs many of these taking place in New York, city of Israelis presently being held hostage in Gaza. There have been some tense confrontations that have taken place. There is the White House's view that these actions should be condemned, the pulling of the pulling down of them or that that's a form of peaceful protest.

14 (17m 52s):
Look, I I haven't, I've sort of kind of seen the reporting here and there. I think it was from last week, right? There's

13 (17m 59s):
Been like 30 million videos that have gone around of it.

14 (18m 1s):
So it's very much No, I hear you. I hear you. I'm just not going to, I'm not going to, I'm not going, okay.

13 (18m 6s):
Is that peaceful protest to pull that down or should you

14 (18m 8s):
Not be doing that? I'm just not going to go into specifics on that particular thing. What I can say, there are real vi violent protests and threats that are happening right now, and senior administration officials are, are aware of these reports, which are deeply concerning, and that is something that we're focused on.

0 (18m 29s):
That is weak tea. That is weak tea at best from Kain Shaere. But again, no shock there. Now the problem is that if you do what the Biden administration seems to want to do, which is pretend that Kamas is like a tiny little group that no one likes in the Gaza Strip or in Judean to marry the West Bank, when you pretend that you end up at the wrong solution, again, you're pretending away the central problem here. The central problem here at Root is not just that Hamas is a genocidal Terrorist group. It's that a huge swath of Palestinians agree with Hamas by polling data, by electoral data. That is the reality. That doesn't mean they should be treated as military targets. Israel wasn't treating 'em as military targets anywhere during this conflict. It is members of Hamas who are being treated as military targets, and it is many civilians who agree with Hamas, who Israel is attempting to now usher down to the south of the Gaza Strip.

0 (19m 17s):
The problem is, if you fail to recognize that there's a broader ideological problem within the Palestinian population, the minute that this is over, the next reconstituted government in Gaza will look exactly like the last reconstituted government in Gaza, which will look exactly like the current Palestinian authority, which by the way, is so unpopular because the Palestinian authority literally pays people to kill Jews. They have a stipend that they paid to the families of terrorists who kill Jews. The Hamas terrorists who kill Jews, their families will get money from the Palestinian authority. Those are the people the Biden administration wants to put in charge of the Gaza Strip. But the Palestinian authority is too moderate for a huge number of people living in both Judean Samaria and the Gaza Strip, which presumably is why there was an assassination attempt on Mahmood Abbas.

0 (19m 60s):
According to the express.com, there's horrifying footage capturing what appears to be an attempted assassination against the Palestinian President Mah Abbas, his convoy came under a hail of gunfire after he disregarded a menacing ultimatum from Renegade Palestinian. Security forces urging him to declare war on Israel again. The biggest problem is that the Palestinian authority, which is already extreme and hates Israel and Abbas is a genocide. I mean, he, he actively says the Holocaust didn't happen. Abbas is too moderate for a huge percentage of the Palestinian population that is the abiding problem. And until the West acknowledges that there's not gonna be anything remotely looking like even security in the Middle East, we'll get to that momentarily first if you can believe it.

Genucel (20m 38s):
Thanksgiving is just two weeks away, just in time for the holidays, Genelle is offering their best sale of the year. Right now you can get 70% off Gen's most popular package, which now includes Gen Cell three. Their newest under eye treatment Genus Cell three will have you looking 10, 15, even 20 years younger. It uses advanced technology to deliver complex vitamins and minerals directly to your face for instant hydration. Say goodbye to those fine lines, crow's feet under dry bags and dark spots. The genus cell experience is like no other, but you don't have to take my word for it. Genus Cell will have you looking and feeling your absolute best guaranteed or your money back, no questions asked. Producer savvy loves the Genelle under eye cream. We have new Genelle three product on the way so she can add that to her skincare routine as well. It's not just savvy. My wife uses it, my mom uses it. You deserve to look and feel your best this holiday season. Go to genelle.com/ Shapiro, get this incredible holiday discount for 70% off their most popular package that includes the Genelle three and the Dark Spot corrector. And the product is so good. My family started using it like a decade ago, and even when they're not advertised, my family still uses the product genu sell.com/ Shapiro for 70% off today, plus free priority shipping. That's genelle.com/ Shapiro today and get your results in 12 hours or less.

0 (21m 39s):
Okay, so again, the the bottom line is that what happens next in the Gaza Strip, which has become an area of contention between the Israelis and the, and the Americans. That relies on what you think the Gaza Strip is, meaning who do you think is going to pick up the pieces over there? Now, Israel has tried to hand it to Egypt. Egypt doesn't want any piece of it. Why? Why do you think Egypt doesn't want control of the Gods Strip and neither does Israel? Why do you think that is? Is it because they all hate that six miles of beachfront territory on the Mediterranean? It's actually pretty nice territory, right? On the Mediterranean, it's like the coastline, same coastline as Tel Aviv. Why exactly does no one want this? The answer is you have 2 million people living there who are so radicalized that Egypt is deeply afraid that if it takes in that group of people that they're going to have a terror threat on their northern border.

0 (22m 23s):
Since Isis is already occupying large portions of the Sinai Desert, which is Egyptian territory. It's the same reason why Israel has tried to hand over control of Palestinian Arab territories, of Palestinian Arab populated areas in Judea and Samaria to Jordan. And Jordan's like, no, no way, man. We have no interest in 3 million Palestinian Arabs living in this area because they're afraid that it's going to overthrow the Hashemite dynasty. That's the irony of watching Queen, queen Rania of Jordan, who is Palestinian Arab by extraction, talking about how much solidarity she has with Palestinians. If you did, you would resign your position and the Hashemite dynasty would be overthrown. But you are enjoying your five star hotels and your extremely luxurious lifestyle while people in your country are living on $4,100 a year.

0 (23m 7s):
And the reason you're not leaving is because your population in Jordan is a pretty extreme population and they'll get more extreme. If you were to take in even including Territory 3 million Palestinian Arabs who hate Jews with a, with a burning passion by polling data, that's what the polls suggests. The the, there's no evidence I'm, I'm still awaiting the evidence that Palestinian Arabs in Judea and Samaria, Palestinian Arabs in the Gaza Strip overwhelmingly in the absence of their current leadership, are Jew loving peace loving people. Like what? That doesn't mean again, that they're legitimate military targets. Nobody's talking about that. What we're talking about is who gets to govern in these areas. One of the assumptions in 2005 when Israel pulled outta the Gaza Strip is that there would then be elections.

0 (23m 47s):
Those elections were overseen and greenlit by the United States. Conza Rice said that the, she was then the Secretary of State, that the, the election that was held in the Gaza Strip was legitimate, who got elected Hamas Hamas then proceeded to kill everybody in the Palestinian authority. But if there were an election held today, the reason Mahmood Debas has not held an election in Judean Samaria is that he's afraid he hasn't held an election since 2008. By the way, he's afraid that if an election were held today, the Palestinian authority would lose. They don't actually have all that much power. That's how extreme the population is in these areas, which is why the problem is supremely intractable. With that said, this is why Israel is saying that they're going to have a continuing security role in Gaza after Hamas is sted.

0 (24m 28s):
According to the Wall Street Journal, Israel said it intends to retain security control of Gaza for an indefinite period once the war with Hamas ends prompting US officials to stress their opposition to a reoccupation of the enclave. Now again, Israel did not wanna reoccupy at all. Israel literally pulled out everyone. They took 8,000 Jews out of that area in Ush Katif, and they moved them. They physically had Jews remove other Jews and take them away from the area. And you've never seen, by the way, anyone in Palestinian government do anything remotely like that. Take Arabs out of one area and move them to another area purposefully in order to hand a concession to the Jews. This has never happened, ever. Israel took 8,000 Jews and moved them out of the north of the Gaza Strip, the Gusti, ve they handed over their houses, their greenhouses, all of the infrastructure.

0 (25m 9s):
The Palestinians promptly burned it and elected Kama and created the greatest Terrorist state. It's like it's a giant T territory over the course of the last 20 years. So when Israel says we have to maintain a security presence in the guy, well duh duh. It's the equivalent of you have the highest crime area in a city and then you say defund the police. So you defund the police and the murder rate goes up and then the murders spread outside that area and the police say, well, now we gotta go back in. Is that because the police are desperate to be in that area? Or is it because the crime needs to go away and the only way that the crime goes away is if you put law enforcement in the area? That's what Israel is talking about. Here's Benjamin Netanyahu talking about an indefinite period of control over Gaza. Again, if, if there's any thought that Israelis are like desperate, just put on blood and treasure to maintain, to security control over the Gaza Strip, you're outta your mind.

0 (25m 57s):
Remember in Israel, everyone is eligible for the draft. Every 18 year old kid, they turn 18, they gotta go to the military. You think Imams and dads in Israel are desperate to send their kids into the Gaza Strip? They were so desperate not to send their kids into the Gaza Strip. They handed the damn place over to over to Hamas. So that's not when Netanyahu saying, but the Biden administration is like, well, maybe it's a land grab, a land grab of what? 2 million Palestinian Arabs, the vast majority of whom despise the Jews and wish to see Israel destroyed by the data. In any case here is, here is Netanyahu talking about what's gonna have to come next.

15 (26m 30s):
President Biden has said that it would be a mistake for Israel to occupy Gaza. Who should govern Gaza when this is over?

16 (26m 37s):
Those who don't want to continue the way of Hamas, it certainly is not. I think Israel will for an indefinite period will have the overall security responsibility because we've seen what happens when we don't have it. When we don't have that security responsibility, what we have is the eruption of Hamas terror on a scale that we couldn't imagine. Do you have

15 (27m 0s):
A warning to Iran? To Hezbollah, thank you.

16 (27m 5s):
I think they've understood that if they enter the war in a significant way, the response will be very, very powerful and I hope they don't make that mistake.

0 (27m 17s):
Okay, so again, the fact that the United States is taking that as we have to warn the Jews off of Reoccupying Gaza. Again, no one except for a very select few people actually want to have complete civilian control of the Gaza Strip, including pretty much everybody who is in Israeli government at this point in time. Why? Because again, the Gaza Strip and Judean Mary are honeycombed with people who hate Jews. And by the way, half of 'em work for the un, the UN Refugee Agency, which was set up solely for the Palestinians. It's the only agency of the United Nations that's been set up for one group of people and one group of people alone. It's the bizarre reason why cities that have been built in the Gaza Strip and have been there for 75 years are still being called refugee camps, despite the fact like Jabaliya, that they're complete and full cities, some of the U-N-R-W-A employees, by the way, these, again, these are people who literally work for the United Nations.

0 (28m 8s):
Many of these people support terror. These people who work for the UN celebrate the Hamas massacre. For example, U-N-R-W-A teacher Asma Raffi Kuil, he celebrated the Hamas attack with exclamation marks and a heart emoji. UN Rwa a employee, Mohamed Sikh Ali. On October 10th, he posted anyone who tries to flee to the south should be treated the way we ought to treat traitors, and the only acceptable direction to move is east or north, which would be by the way, into Israel. That's a Hamas invasion of Israel. Or how about the UN RWA Gaza School administrator Hamad Ahmed. On October 7th, he posted quote, we welcome the great October, and then he called for ethnic cleansing of all Jews in Israel. These are people who work for the un.

0 (28m 48s):
So again, the idea that Israel is gonna give up control of the Gaza Strip insecurity terms to the United Nations is absolutely absurd. So what exactly is going to come next? Again, I think in the end, what's going to come in is an Israeli military control of the Gaza Strip while they search for some local leader who will do the work of actually attempting to administer the Gaza Strip, finding that person is not going to be easy. Again, I'm not sure the Palestinian authority wants it. They can barely control Judaism area. The Egyptians don't want it, the Jordanians don't want it. The UAE doesn't want it. The Saudis don't want it. The Europeans don't want it. The Americans don't want it. Nobody wants it. Why don't they want it? Again, it comes down to there's going to have to be a decades long shift in the opinion structures and incentive structures of people living in the Gaza Strip so that they recognize that if they were to build their lives around say material prosperity and some level of religious tolerance, that their lives might be better than if they direct their lives and their children's lives toward the murder of every Jew in the region.

0 (29m 48s):
That's the only way that that anything better is gonna happen. This is why when people talk about a two state solution in the current context, it's absolutely nonsensical. It's absolutely ridiculous. With whom? With whom you wanna talk Two state solution, you're gonna need a peace partner. Who exactly would that be? No, no one can answer that question because the question doesn't have an answer. Unfortunately, Israel wishes it did. Considering that they have now offered very generous peace deals in 1993, 2000, 2001, and 2008, and gave the entire Gaza Strip over to the Palestinians in 2005. Okay, coming up, we are going to get to a series of disastrous elections for Republicans in Ohio, in Kentucky, in Virginia. What the hell is going on? Joe Biden is wildly unpopular.

0 (30m 30s):
Democrats are not good at governing. So why are Democrats winning every off year election? We'll get to that momentarily.

PrizePicks (30m 34s):
First, the NBA season has started back up, which means now is the perfect time to join Prize picks. Prize picks, offers projections on pretty much every sport there is N-B-A-M-L-B-N-F-L-N-H-L-P-G-A, college Sports eSports, NASCAR Tennis, MMA, disc golf, whatever you are into prize picks is the easiest and fastest way to play daily fantasy sports. You pick two to six players and you choose whether they will score more or less than their prize picks projection. You can run up to 25 times your money on a single entry. You don't compete against other people, it's just you versus the Projections. Plus prize Picks has a reboot policy. It keeps your entries in play, even if one of your players gets injured for NFL Games and college football, top 25 matchups. If you have a player who exits the game in the first half and doesn't come back in the second, that player is then rebooted. Prize Picks is the only daily fancy sports platform with injury insurance producer Jake, for example, big fan of the Memphis Grizzlies. Sadly for him, they are absolute garbage this season, but Prize Picks allow Jake to still enjoy watching that regular season and make entries on his favorite players. Jake says the interface is just fantastic. Go to prize picks.com/ Ben. Use promo code BEN for a first deposit match up to a hundred bucks. That's prize picks.com/ Ben with promo code Ben for a deposit match up to $100.

Mayflower Cigars (31m 36s):
Also, as you know, I don't smoke, but my friend Michael Moles does. He wants me to tell you about our new Cigars Mayflower. A Cigars, yes, I've noted many times over the years Michael Moles doesn't really know or do much of anything, but there is one exception to that rule. He does know his Cigars all those years he should have been working, studying, really doing anything productive. He spent all of his time and my money obsessing over Cigars. So in a moment of benevolent mercy, I figured it might be worthwhile for us to start a new brand that can actually use the only gift Michael has been given. Michael tells me that each premium handmade cigar is blended to perfection, aged to perfection. You can try the Mayflower dawn, a mild to medium bodied cigar, or try the Mayflower dusk for a fuller bodied smoke. You can enjoy them in three different sizes. I can't tell the difference between these, but Michael can and he says they're good. If you can't decide, order a sampler pack that includes one of each blend in a variety of sizes, go to Mayflower Cigars dot com right now. Get your Mayflower Cigars today. You have to be 21 years old or older to purchase some exclusions may apply.

0 (32m 37s):
So Meanwhile last night, series of disastrous elections for Republicans across the country. So Democrats have won control of the Virginia legislature. This was seen in large part as a referendum on Glenn Jenkin, who is the Virginia governor. There, for some odd reason, seemed to be a lot of notion that Jenkin was going to throw his hat into the presidential race or something. If the Virginia state legislature had been taken by Republicans. I think that was always a fool's errand. There was really no groundswell for Glenn Young King to get into the presidential race. It didn't really matter because Virginia Democrats did really, really well last night. They did really, really well because they won based on running on abortion. That was the issue that they ran on. Now here is the thing about political issues and messaging.

0 (33m 18s):
There is no such thing as a winning issue. There's only such a thing as a winning message. This is something that Republicans and Democrats should keep in mind as they run for office in the future when it comes to running, it's not that an issue just defaults to you. So if there's a poll that says Joe Biden really unpopular on the economy, that's not a Republican issue, you have to then craft that into a message that wins. This is true for virtually every issue. Any issue could theoretically be a winning issue, so long as it is messaged properly. So for example, when Glenn Youngen became governor of Virginia and upset Terry McAuliffe, the former governor of Virginia, when that happened, one of the reasons he won is because there was a parent's rights movement that really sprang up around a case that was reported by our own Luke AK here at DailyWire in Loudoun County.

0 (34m 1s):
Were schools a winning issue in Virginia or was it a winning message that parents ought to have control over their own kids and their education and their safety and those kids should not be put in danger by foolish school administrators? And then Terry McAuliffe picked the wrong message, which is you should not be in control of your kids, that the administrator should be in control of your kids. So you have to have a winning message and your opponent has to have a losing message. That is the way that you actually win elections. While Republicans since 2016 have not had any winning messages, let's just be real about this. Ronna Romney McDaniel should not be the head of the RNC. I don't know how you can lose this many times in a row and still retain your job. It's truly amazing. The only person who's failed up as much as Ronna Romney McDaniel at this point is Kamala Harris.

0 (34m 43s):
Republicans have now lost elections in 20 18, 20 20, 20 21, 20 22, and 2023. The last election they won was 2016. They've underperformed every single election Since then, and yet people retain their jobs and continue to draw paychecks and that is unacceptable. So what exactly happened in Virginia? Well, one of the things that happened in Virginia is, again, there's a lot of talk about abortion by Democrats. So according to the Washington Post, Democrats flipped control of the Virginia House of Delegates securing victories in at least 51 seats, giving them majority in both chambers of the General assembly. Republicans were defending a slim 52 to 48 majority. But Democrats saw an opportunity to make gains under newly drawn maps following a court ordered redistricting process.

0 (35m 24s):
So Democrats definitely got a hand from the local courts in drawing districts that benefited them shortly after 11:00 PM before any independent news organizations called the Race, Virginia House Minority Leader Delegate Don l Scott, declared Democrats would assume control of the house and the Senate following Tuesday's election. So again, this was a race that was largely run on the basis of abortion. Glenn Youngin was running around the state attempting to drum up support for his own side. The problem is that right now, again, things are not going like youngin is personally very popular in Virginia. That doesn't necessarily translate over into Republican control if Republicans have a bad image across the country, and right now Republicans have a bad image across the country, they're seen as largely incompetent.

0 (36m 7s):
Again, partially or largely earned. They're seen as extreme by brand and that is largely tied to January 6th. And Donald Trump in particular, as you'll see in in discussing some of these other elections, and when it comes to the abortion issue, Republicans have not yet gotten their heads around an actual winning message on the issue. Now the truth is that winning message on abortion is not the same across the country. Politics is a pragmatic business and the full pro-life message in Virginia is not going to go the same way as the full pro-life message in say, Georgia or Florida. In Florida, you can pass a six week abortion ban because Republicans are very popular here in Georgia. You can do the same. You can't do that in Virginia.

0 (36m 47s):
Glenn Jenkin was not running on that. He was running on a 15 week abortion ban. And the problem was that Democrats were saying that's the first step toward Republicans going for the full abortion ban in Virginia. And local ladies got very upset and they all came out and they voted in favor of the Democrats. And the same thing happened in Ohio as well. In the wake of Roe versus Wade, Republicans have not come up with a state by state strategy or a messaging strategy, and here is what the actual strategy needs to be on a state by state basis where there is consensus, you pass a thing where there is not consensus, you don't pass a thing. Now there is no one in America as pro-life design. I've spoken in the March for Life, I'm fully pro-life. I don't even in my own personal idea of of what good legislation would look like, I would not tolerate abortion.

0 (37m 31s):
Even in cases that are very controversial like rape or incest, I'm as pro-life as it is possible to be. I've been extremely clear about this. However, if you wish to see fewer abortions in the United States, if you wish to see durable law in the United States, you have to win. And if you want to win, that's going to mean they're going to have to come face to face with some tough realities. And the reality is that running on my platform, running on what I would like to see is not going to win you office in Virginia. It's not. And the more threatening you appear in Virginia, the worse it's going to go for you. The same thing happened in Ohio. So in Ohio, the Democrats in, in pretty wide fashion won a re referendum on abortion, what they call abortion rights.

0 (38m 16s):
What it really was was Enshrining Roe v Wade in law in the state of Ohio. So in Ohio there was an attempt to enshrine the right to abortion in the state constitution. It's a ballot initiative. It establishes an individual right to one's own reproductive medical treatment, including but not limited to abortion. And it creates legal protections for anyone who assists a person with Receiving reproductive medical treatment. According to the Washington Post, the amendment grants, the treating physician, the authority to determine on a case by case basis whether an unborn child is viable and grants exceptions for abortions at any stage of pregnancy to protect the health or life of the mother. So why did this happen? Well, the reason this happened is because there was another election that was held in August that was a referendum that would've made it more difficult to amend the state constitution through future ballot initiatives.

0 (39m 5s):
The reason for that is because there was a snapback law in place in Ohio that had effectively banned abortion almost across the board in Ohio, in the aftermath of Roe v. Wade being overturned. So they tried to pass a law, the Republicans that basically enshrined in the Constitution what that law was. It's gonna be very difficult for you to overturn that, and that was rejected. And then a right to abortion was enshrined in the state constitution. Now, let's say that the Republicans, instead of allowing that snapback law to go into place, let's say if they said, listen, we know that in Ohio that the, the law before this was 22 weeks, 22 weeks is way too late. But we need to incrementally introduce the people of Ohio to what good abortion law looks like.

0 (39m 46s):
They're not gonna go to six weeks and stay there. And if you wanna preserve lives in the long term, you're gonna have to do this incrementally. 'cause that's how politics often works. The message is lives must be preserved, but we also have to go a little slower than even we would want for sure than we would want because people have to get used to ideas, they have to be un indoctrinated about what life is and what abortion is. And so we're gonna go to a 15 week in Ohio, hard to see how that would've failed. For example, Ohio's a very red state. Donald Trump won that state by eight 10 points in the last couple election cycles. They didn't do that. And so instead you get the snapback in Ohio, which now has enshrined basically Roe versus Wade. Again, that's the same thing that happened in Virginia Republicans. It's a, a lot of Republicans are saying abortion is not a winning issue.

0 (40m 28s):
It's not about being a winning issue. It's about do you have a winning message and can you wrong foot your opponents? The nice thing about arguing for an incremental approach is that Democrats are then forced to argue in favor of 20 week abortions and 22 week abortions. And that's not something that they like arguing over. They like arguing over rape and incest exceptions because those are the most outlying and and least common forms of abortion. Both sides like arguing at the extremes of this particular argument. The right is very comfortable arguing par partial birth abortion for obvious reasons. The left is very ar comfortable arguing rape and incest. The question is, where is that line where the median voter tips over from one side to the other? And again, winning elections is the precondition to changing the law.

0 (41m 10s):
Republicans should keep that in mind. Meanwhile over in Kentucky by, by the way, the polling in Ohio was pretty clear about this. Every single demographic supported the enshrinement of Roe versus Wade into law. It was split 50 50 with white men, but white women supported the initiative. 57 to 43 black men supported the initiative. 87 to 13 black women supported the initiative 81 to 19. In fact, the only demographic that voted against this initiative to Enshrine versus Wade were people who are 65 or older, literally the only one. And so that means the Republicans messaged it wrong. I mean that's clearly the, the message here. That doesn't mean you gotta run away from the abortion issue. You can make very strong and excellent abortion arguments.

0 (41m 51s):
But what is happening right now is that all this is getting hashed out at the state level, which is why Roe versus Wade, by the way, this is what should have happened. Roe versus Wade being overturned, kicked it back to the state level. States now get to the decide on their own, legally speaking, how to approach the issue of abortion. Republicans in each state have to take stock of exactly how they wish to run on those particular issues. And until Republicans start to realize that a nationalized strategy across all issues is not going to work, they're gonna continue to lose state elections. Over in Kentucky Meanwhile, Andy Beshear won his reelect effort, which is amazing because again, that state won 22 points in favor of Donald Trump. Now, he did outspend his opponent, Daniel Cameron, by a very large margin Beshir in his Democratic allies, apparently swamped Republicans spending $47 million on ads after the May.

0 (42m 35s):
Primary Republicans were only able to spend $29 million. Bashir's campaign spent around $24 million on ads. That's more than five times what Cameron's campaign actually spent on all this. And again, Kentucky was run on abortion. Bashir's campaign featured a young woman whose stepfather raped her when she was 12 and suggested that she needed to be able to have an abortion. So again, Democrats are gonna run on abortion on the state level across the country. Republicans are gonna have to figure out on a state by state level how to address this issue because that is the realm of practical politics, overturning Roe versus Wade. You can make a full pro-life case for overturning Roe versus Wade, and you can certainly make an easy legal case that Roe versus Wade should be overturned. But to pretend this is not a thorny issue for Republicans is to ignore the realities of the facts on the ground, on the state level, to pretend that the same message works in Georgia as works in Ohio, as works in Kentucky, as works anywhere else is a mistake.

0 (43m 24s):
And Republicans had better get their heads around that or they're gonna continue losing. It also doesn't help when again, you're running candidates who add to the pile things like January 6th or, or can be labeled, quote unquote maga. You know, people on the right are annoyed that the left keeps saying Maga over and over. Obviously the left finds this fruitful, otherwise they wouldn't do it as an electoral strategy. It is born fruit for them, which means they'll continue to do it until Republicans come up with a better counter than nanny nanny boo boo. In just one second, we'll talk about the vulnerabilities of Joe Biden because there's a big Republican debate tonight. We'll get to that momentarily.

Grand Canyon University (43m 57s):
First, The Ben Shapiro Show is supported by Grand Canyon University in affordable private Christian university with vibrant campus in beautiful Phoenix, Arizona, ranked top 20 in the country by niche.com. GCU is a missional Christ-centered university that strives to foster a culture of community giving and impact. G C's goal is to help you develop into a servant leader who makes a difference through finding your purpose. With three 30 academic programs and over 270 online, as of June, 2023, GCU integrates the free market system with a welcoming Christian worldview into your bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree Find, your purpose at Grand Canyon University private Christian, affordable. Visit gcu.edu today.

0 (44m 33s):
Well, all of this, you know, the fact that messaging matters, that there's no such thing as winning issue. There's just a winning message. This is the reason why Joe Biden's vulnerabilities are not in and of themselves going to defeat Joe Biden. Somebody has to defeat Joe Biden. There has to be a winning message as much as we talk in 2020 about Joe Biden hiding in the basement. And that's true. The winning message for Joe Biden was, Trump is crazy, he shouldn't be president. That was the winning message for him and it did win. That's why the basement strategy works. Now, Donald Trump could win an election against Joe Biden by saying, that guy's awful at this job. He's awful and terrible at this job, but that means he has to run on that. The election can't be about anything else. Well, the good news is that's pretty fertile ground Democrats are busily attempting to convince people that everybody is doing great in America.

0 (45m 14s):
Paul Krugman has an entire piece titled, why Does the Right Hate America in The New York Times Today? Why? Why is he saying that the right hates America? Because the right is pointing out that crime has spiked in the last couple of years because of Democrats and their and their Procr policies that Republicans are sort of upset about the state of the economy, even though he says that the economy is just glowing and doing amazing. Really try to convince the American people that their feelings are wrong on these issues, really? Go for it. Even many Democrats and and popular Hollywood entertainers are starting to figure out that Joe Biden is a very, very bad candidate. Now, again, Republicans could take that for granted and then just assume he's gonna lose. That'd be a huge widespread mistake. But here was Sarah Silverman last night, and this is pretty biting stuff against Joe Biden.

17 (45m 55s):
Let's kick things off with the reason most of the people in this audience could not sleep well. Last night, A new poll shows Joe Biden getting trounced by Donald Trump and almost every single swing state. Don't panic, it's still too early to say Biden will definitely lose. He could absolutely die in his sleep. Instead, I'm just saying this is really scary for liberals and I mean actually scary. Not like they took Hamilton off Disney Plus scary.

0 (46m 23s):
Well, yes, Democrats are in a state of full scale panic over Joe Biden, and again, they should be because there's gonna be more that drops about him and Hunter. There's gonna be more that drops in terms of the economy before the election. Now, tonight is a big Republican debate. Now, when I say big, I mean kind of big. The reason I say kind of big is because Donald Trump is running away in the polling data right now just running away. The national GOP polling data has Donald Trump up near 60%. That's as high as he has been this entire election cycle. He is up in the real clear politics average at 58%. Ron DeSantis is at 14. Nikki Haley is at nine, but Va Ramas Swami is at four, Christy is at three, and everybody else is in also ran. I do love that the real clear politics, polling average, Tim Scott is running below Mike Pence, who's no longer in the race.

0 (47m 4s):
Doug Bergham, for some reason, is still in the race. No one understands why, but okay. In any case, Trump has this extremely large lead. Now in Iowa, the lead isn't quite as large, but it's still very large. So the current polling suggests that he is up on the field by somewhere in the neighborhood of 25 to 27 points. That's where, which is a big lead. It is a big lead, but he does not have a majority of voters clearly moving in his direction. Yesterday, Kim Reynolds is the governor of Iowa, a very popular governor of Iowa, endorsed Ron DeSantis. Here's what that sounded like.

18 (47m 33s):
We need to make sure that we choose wisely, that we make the right decision, that we elect somebody who can actually win and beat Joe Biden. And we need a president who has the skills and the resolve to reverse the madness that we see on a daily basis. We need a president that is focused on the future and not the past, and we need a president who puts Americans and America first. And I'm here to tell you that that man is Ron DeSantis.

0 (48m 12s):
Okay? So there, she's endorsing. Now she's, is she wildly popular in Iowa? She's kind of like, even in Iowa, the latest Emerson College poll showed her approval rating at 32% approved, 39% disapproved, 29% neutral. So we're kinda like, eh, about Kim Reynolds in Iowa, but she does have a very large political organization in Iowa. And this effectively is going to foreclose the possibility that Nikki Haley comes from behind and overtakes at this point, Ron DeSantis, because again, it's a caucus state. So what that means is that DeSantis in Iowa is the truest threat to Trump. Now, that's also the state where the polls are the closest. So if nobody beats Trump in Iowa, it is clearly an overtly over. It may be over, even if somebody does beat Trump in Iowa, obviously he lost Iowa the first time around against Ted Cruz and then he proceeded to win the nomination.

0 (48m 56s):
If you look at the other states that are coming up in the Republican nominating process, Trump is well ahead in all of those states. So in New Hampshire, he has 49% to Haley's, 15% to DeSantis is 11% to Christie's 9%. Now, again, those numbers aren't 55%, 60% in the early states, but that's before you get down south. And once you get down to like South Carolina, Trump's gonna clean up. So there needs to be a major showing of some level of momentum by another Republican candidate. The thing that is prohibiting that is in fact Joe Biden's weak polling data. Republicans are gonna have to think a little bit with their heads instead of just looking at the polling data. Now that's weird for me to say. I think polling data is kinda the only data we have. What other evidence do we have? With that said, the polls are also showing there's a lot of malleability between Trump and Biden.

0 (49m 40s):
So you gotta take that into account. Will Trump be able to deliver the knockout blow to Biden? Will he be able to deliver the message that is going to get Joe Biden booted from office? That's the question hovering in the background of tonight's Republican debate. So what needs to happen in tonight's Republican debate? Well, clearly at some point here, DeSantis and Hailey are gonna go at each other. Haley has to knock DeSantis out just to not only knock DeSantis out, just to somehow consolidate the rest of the field's support. That's a very uphill road. As I've said before, Ron DeSantis, if he bows outta the race right now, half his support will go to the non-Trump candidates and half his support will go to the Trump candidate, meaning Trump. That means that if he's got 20% in these polls, 10% of that goes to Trump. That puts Trump at 60 or 70%.

0 (50m 21s):
So that's over Haley. Her entire support base is outside the Trump camp. No one who loves Trump is supporting Haley. That's just not the crossover right now, if she were to drop out, presumably that support gets split among Kristi and Ramas. Swami, probably not Ramas, Swami Kristi DeSantis. And then as the field consolidated, it might turn into a two man race. With that said, what is tonight's race good for? It's gotta clear the field. There has to be some dropouts after this race. Tim Scott needs to go away for whatever his 3% are worth. Chris Christie has no shot at the nomination. He knows it, it's a spike campaign. That's the only thing that drives the, the, the round mound to rebound over here is just Pure spite. That's the only reason he is still in the race. He needs to go away. He, he, he's doing nothing that Mike Pence didn't already try.

0 (51m 4s):
This is a, this is a two person race for the second place finish. And until that part of the field consolidates, there's certainly no shot at defeating Donald Trump. Even if they consolidate. Donald Trump has just by the numbers, a wild advantage. And Republicans are gonna have to decide before the election cycle if they believe that Donald Trump is the best person to take on Joe Biden. Just assuming that Biden himself is the winning issue and there doesn't need to be a winning message. Alright guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be joined by Dan Seniority's, former White House Foreign Policy advisor and author of the Genius of Israel. If you're not a member, become member Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.