0 (0s):
Democrats ranging from Bernie Sanders to Gavin. Newsom are waiting in the wings for Joe Biden to fall down on the job. Jerome Powell spells out an unclear path forward on inflation and we examine the latest Republican polls. I'm Ben Shapiro.

ExpressVPN (10s):
This is The Ben Shapiro Show Ben Shapiro Show sponsored by ExpressVPN Protector Online privacy today at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (22s):
Joe Biden is playing a very, very dangerous game. I don't just mean with regard to his presidential run against the presumptive Republican nominee right now, Donald Trump I mean with regard to his own party. So Joe Biden is non-existent as just a human being. According to the Republican National Committee, Joe Biden has spent 23 of the past 30 days on vacation. Later this week, he's going back to Rehoboth Beach for more. His entire strategy as a president of the United States is now apparently the same strategy he used in getting to the presidency, which is hide in a basement in Delaware and just stay there, right? Every so often they open the coffin and they roll Joe on out and then they machinate his mouth for him and then they move him back into his coffin and then the door shut click.

0 (1m 7s):
But here's the problem. There are a lot of Democrats who aren't particularly satisfied with all of this, particularly 'cause the person who is backing up Joe Biden is also wildly unpopular in Kamala Harris. Republicans are not just going to run against Joe Biden. They're also going to run against the person who presumptively will pick up the pieces when God forbid something happens to the current president of the United States. This is why presumably you have Bernie Sanders back in New Hampshire over the weekend. So Bernie has no business in New Hampshire. The only reason for Bernie to be in New Hampshire is because he thinks maybe just maybe Joe Biden ain't gonna be around if it's time to run for president again. And everybody has talked about the Gavin Newsom's of the world will get to him in a moment. Everybody talks about Kamala Harris. People forget that the person who won Iowa and New Hampshire in the last Democratic primary season was neither of those two characters.

0 (1m 52s):
Kamala Harris dropped out before we even hit California. The person who won was Bernie, and if it had not been for the entire Democratic Party infrastructure coming together to stop Bernie Sanders from winning the nomination, they literally all got together. Then they all endorsed Joe Biden simultaneously. If that doesn't happen, Bernie Sanders is the nominee for the Democratic Party, and there is every belief that Donald Trump wins reelection over Bernie Sanders. Well, Bernie is getting active again, and I gotta tell you, communism must be amazing for your, for your blood because apparently being a complete leach on other people for your entire life, which is Bernie Sanders's story, one of the most useless people in all of American history, Bernie Sanders's entire life has been built around useless uselessness, taking American public dollars and all the, he's just the worst.

0 (2m 34s):
And Bernie is back in New Hampshire over the weekend, he delivered a speech entitled The Agenda America Needs at St. Anselm College's, New Hampshire Institute of Politics. He said, this will lay out a concrete agenda, which speaks to the needs of the long neglected working class. And he put out a statement saying, I've always believed a good public policy is good politics. The American people are increasingly disgusted at the growing levels of income and wealth inequality in our country and the rampant corporate greed. We are seeing all of this is sparking some speculation. CNN's an interview with Bernie over the weekend. Here's what he had to say.

3 (3m 6s):
You said, if we're going to defeat the creeping authoritarianism and right wing extremism, there has to be an ideological change. Of course. Can you explain what you mean by that?

5 (3m 20s):
Well, what I mean by that, Dana, is that the president has a right to be very proud of many of the accomplishments that we've achieved in the last three years. Unemployment very, very low. We've brought inflation down, we're investing in clean energy, we're rebuilding our infrastructure. We have made real progress in a number of areas, but the reality is that today, 60% of our people living paycheck to paycheck, we have massive levels of income and wealth inequality. Three people or more wealth in the bottom half of America.

0 (3m 55s):
Okay, so Bernie th this is the language of a person who wants to campaign, right? As New Hampshire Institute of Politics, executive director at Neil Levesque told the Christian Science Monitor, he said, we invited him, but he is coming here for a reason. I think it opens the door for a lot of other sorts of thoughts about whether or not Biden's going to be the nominee, whether or not Biden is going to be running in next year's presidential election. Now, Biden Bernie has said over and over and over, he's gonna back Biden. But again, it seems as though there is now the, the door is now open to Democrats openly talking about what happens if Joe Biden doesn't survive? And this has been sort of verboten, right? There's been a a, a kind of ixnay on the talking about Joe Biden's El Hey, just don't talk about it and it'll go away. But now it is perfectly obvious to everyone that Joe Biden is ailing.

0 (4m 36s):
And so even Bernie Sanders, who by the way, is older than Joe Biden. Bernie Sanders is 81 years old. Bernie is not just gonna give up the ghost right here. He looks at that field and he says, well, I have more of a support base nationally than Gavin Newsom. And so the possibility that Bernie could theoretically be waiting in the wings for, I don't think any of these people are gonna jump in directly against Joe Biden unless Joe Biden has some sort of serious he scare. But honest to God, I mean it seems like day to day, the possibility of Joe Biden having a serious he scare is like 50% every time that man has a press conference, you're waiting for hi for God forbid, something to happen to the current president of the United States. You don't want anything bad to happen to anybody for health reasons. But if you're a Democrat waiting in the wings right now, and you look at Joe Biden and they're hiding him on a beach by himself trying to stop the old man from getting covid or something, you have to be thinking, well, who's backing him up?

0 (5m 22s):
And no one is happy with Kamala Harris, despite the attempt by Politico to sort of revive the, the enthusiasm that never existed around Kamala Harris. So Bernie may be back in the ball game. Meanwhile, everybody is pretty, pretty clear on the fact that Gavin Newsom is waiting in the wings as well. Gavin Newsom has been running a shadow campaign. It's why he is been running against Ron DeSantis. According to N B C news, Newsom is increasingly being viewed as a nuisance by some of President Joe Biden's political advisors. According to four people familiar with the matter, the Biden's camp no longer sees Newsom will wanna be challenger. Newsom's plans to debate Florida Governor Ron DeSantis on TV carries more risk than potential reward according to those people. This has caused consternation within Biden's operation and particularly among Vice President Kamala Harris's allies.

0 (6m 3s):
It should cause consternation with Kamala Harris. The notion that of Kamala Harris, where the heir appearance to Joe Biden known would challenge her is nonsense. Everyone would challenge her. The number of people in the race of Kamala Harris is the presumptive heir to Joe Biden is insane that that place is gonna be more crowded than the US open this weekend. I mean it's it's totally crazy. Some Biden advisors have complained privately. The planned debate could make voters think Newsom is running a Shadow 2024 campaign at a time when most Democrats say they'd prefer a different candidate at the top of the ticket. They also argued it could elevate DeSantis, whom White House Advisors initially perceived as a greater threat to Biden's reelection hopes than the G o p front runner, former President Donald Trump Howies. All Harris allies take particularly umbridge of what they see as Newsom's attempt to position himself for the 2028 Democratic Presidential primarily at her expense.

0 (6m 47s):
So again, there are a lot of Democrats and they're champing at the bit to go after Joe Biden and at least after the people who had come after Joe Biden. There's a reason Joe Biden's team is hiding him away. In just one second, we'll get to the continued controversies swirling around. Joe Biden makes him incredibly vulnerable even inside his own party.

Pure Talk (7m 5s):
First, is there a cell phone in desperate need of replacement? You know the signs you have that short battery life, like literally every time you walk out of the house, your battery's down to 10% and then you charge it, and then five minutes later stay on to 10%. Again, it's time to put that old phone out to pasture Upgrade to a new five G Samsung Galaxy from Pure Talk for free. Get a free five G Samsung Galaxy with two day Battery Life Edge, edge display, ultra strong Gorilla Glass. When you sign up for Pure Talks, unlimited talk text and 15 gig data plan for just 35 bucks a month. Plus it comes with mobile hotspot as well. If you're not using Pure Talk, you're simply paying too much money. Get all the data you could ever need for half the price of the big carriers on America's Most Dependable five G network. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash apparel for your free super durable five G Samsung Galaxy. When you switch over to Pure Talk, again, visit Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Make that switch to my cell phone company, Pure Talk. It is the official wireless partner of The Daily Wire Plus, it's a company that actually doesn't hate your guts. Plus, they're the company that I use and I have a lot of important business calls. I take them every single day, and I use Pure Talk for those business calls. If my business calls are important to me. I'm sure your business calls are important to you and your family calls and all the rest. Use Pure Talk dot com slash Pure. Get your free super durable five G Samsung Galaxy when you switch over to Pure Talk today.

0 (8m 11s):
Okay, so the controversy continues to swirl over the failures of the Biden administration. All of the investigations surrounding the legality of what Joe Biden has been doing, those are not simply going to go away. In fact, there's an article in the New York Post over the weekend. It's pretty dicey with regard to Jack Smith. Jack Smith is of course, the special counsel who's appointed to go after Donald Trump in multiple cases. He's got the Florida case over Donald Trump's mishandling allegedly of classified documents, and he is got the January 6th case up in Washington d c. Well, now according to the New York Post, it turns out the White House Council's office met with a top aid to special counsel Jack Smith just weeks before he brought charges against former President Trump for allegedly mishandling classified documents, raising serious concerns about coordinated legal efforts aimed at President Biden's likely opponent in 2024.

0 (8m 53s):
Jay Bratt, who joined the special counsel team in November, 2022, shortly after it was formed, took a meeting in the White House on March 31st, 2020, March 31st, 2023 with Caroline Saba, the Deputy Chief of staff for the White House Council's office. According to White House visitor logs, they were joined in the 10:00 AM meeting by Danielle Ray and F B I agents in the Washington Field office. Nine weeks later, Trump was indicted by Smith's office on June 8th, 2023. Brad, who's 63, also met with Saba at the White House in November, 2021 when Trump was mired in negotiations with the National Archives. Brad had a third meeting in the White House, September, 2021. This with Katherine Riley, an advisor to the White House's chief of Staff Office. It's not clear what exactly was discussed, but critics and legal experts are questioning why Bratt was taking meetings at all with the White House Council's office while part of an active investigation into President Biden's likely 2024 Republican opponent.

0 (9m 42s):
Obviously, Rudy Giuliani is fighting mad about it. He says there's no legitimate purpose for a DOJ guy to be meeting with the White House, except if it's coordinated at the highest levels. Giuliani said that he believes that obviously this is some sort of coordination. George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley, said that the meeting was particularly troublesome and raises obvious concerns about visits to the White House. After Brad began his work with the Special Counsel, he said there's no reason why the DOJ should not be able to confirm whether this meeting was related to the ongoing investigation or concerns some other matter. Now, theoretically, it could concern some other matter, but the fact is that when you have meetings between the people who are prosecuting Donald Trump and members of the White House staff, that is not something that a special counsel's office should be doing quite obviously.

0 (10m 24s):
Meanwhile, on the other side of the ledger, the Congressional investigations into Joe and Hunter Biden continue. Kevin McCarthy over the weekend, speaker of the House, he was asked about shutting down investigations into Hundred or Joe Biden said, of course I'm not doing that.

6 (10m 37s):
Walk us through your scenarios that you expect. Do you think we'll see a short term continuing resolution while you finish the appropriations process? Well,

7 (10m 46s):
One of our goals is to change Washington. We're tired of these omnibus bills where Congress doesn't do their work like the appropriation. So in the debt ceiling, we put a provision in there. If you didn't do your job, there was a 1% cut across the board. It made a lot of members mad, but they're actually doing their work. I don't believe we'll have enough time to pass all the appropriation bills by September 30th. So I would actually like to have a short term CR only to make our argument stronger because Maria, if we shut down all government shuts it down, investigation and everything else, it hurts the American public. But if we're able to pass our appropriation bills, we're in a stronger position to remove those, those Pelosi policies that are locked into law right now.

0 (11m 30s):
Okay, so the investigation into Hunter is going to be ongoing from Congress as well. It should be Victor Shoken who's at the center of a lot of this controversy. You remember Victor Shoken? He was the former top Ukraine prosecutor who was targeted by Joe Biden as well as by Barisma. Now, Joe Biden's claim is that the reason he got shn fired in Ukraine is because there was international consternation over Victor Shoken having the power that he did, that he was corrupt, and that's the reason that Joe Biden was doing all of that. Barisma was at the same time lobbying for Shoken to be gone because he was investigating Barisma. His claim is the reason that Joe Biden did it is because he was investigating Barisma Hunter Biden was on the board of Barisma And Joe Biden suddenly took a magical interest in his particular job. Over the weekend, he did an interview with Brian Kilmeade, in which he talked about why he thinks he was fired.

0 (12m 12s):
Victor Shoken,

8 (12m 13s):
Why were you fired from your position by President Shanko?

9 (12m 19s):
I have said repeatedly in my previous interviews that Paul Shanko fired me at the insistence of the then Vice President Biden, because I was investigating Bura.

8 (12m 32s):
So did President Pacheko tell you that, that he wanted you to stay on the job, but there was pressure from President, vice President Biden.

9 (12m 45s):
You understood me correctly. This is how it was. There were no complaints whatsoever, no problems with how I was performing at my job, but because pressure was repeatedly put on President Chenko, that is what ended up in him firing me.

0 (13m 6s):
He says, the reason I oversaw the bruise Burman case was because I was prosecutor General Bism Mo was an ordinary case. There was nothing particularly different about it. He said, the reason I was handling it is because it deserved a special mention. It was on a list of cases to merit special attention because Hunter Biden was involved with Barisma And. of course, his father, the Vice President Biden at the time oversaw Ukraine affairs for the White House. This is why he also added, he had no doubt Bism Mo was engaged in illegal activities and said it would half a day to explain them all. Among the allegations, he said that Barisma illegally produced, sold, and utilized natural gas supplies. This according to Fox News, he says, I have no doubt there were illegal activities engaged in by Barisma. As a matter of fact, the criminal case had been started before me and continued to explains Chesky, who at the time held the post of minister and was the founder and c e O of Barisma started bringing in people who could provide protection for him.

0 (13m 46s):
Hunter Biden was among them. The corruption network expanded as a result. So yes, to answer your question, there was no doubt in my mind Barisma was engaged in illegal activities. Now, as Fox News points out, it's pretty obvious that Hunter called DC to work on Token House Overside Committee Chairman James Comer said, quote, when Barisma hiss owner was facing pressure from the Ukrainian prosecutor investigating the company for corruption, Devin Archer, who is Hunter Biden's former business partner, testified the Barisma executives asked Hunter to call DC after a barisma board meeting in Dubai and Fox News Digital reported that on November 2nd, 2015, Barisma executive VE PKI emailed Hunter Biden Archer and fellow Hunter associate Eric Schwerin about a revised proposal contract, an initial invoice for Barisma holding from lobbying from Blue Star Strategies.

0 (14m 28s):
Hunter reportedly connected Barisma with Blue Star strategies to help the energy firm fight corruption charges levied against Chesky. The company's owner, Ann Pky emphasized in that email, the ultimate purpose of the agreement was to shut down any cases or pursuits against Nikolai in Ukraine. That would be it's Lev Chesky a again, Shoken also went on. He accused the bidens of actually taking bribes. He said, had I continued to oversee the Barisma investigation, we would've found the facts about the corrupt activities they were engaging in that included both Hunter Biden and Evan Archer and others. He said, I don't wanna deal in unproven facts. My firm personal conviction is yes, this was the case. They were being bribed. The fact that Joe Biden gave away $1 billion in US money in exchange for by dismissal, my firing alone, isn't that a case of corruption? Well, I mean the answer is yes.

0 (15m 10s):
I mean, the only question there is whether Joe Biden is able to hide his motivation, which may have been over barisma by saying that everybody wanted choke and fired anyway, but two things can be true at once. Everybody wanted choke and fired, and the real reason that Joe Biden was interested in choking to the point where he was calling up the president of Ukraine and actually sending emails from a secret account to Biden and to Hunter over Ukraine. The reason maybe he took like a special interest, maybe it's because of the fact that his son was working for Barisma at the time. All of this is not dead, not by a long shot. Other Democrats know it. This is why there's a little bit of blood in the water with regards to the current president of the United States. Okay, we're gonna get to more on this race in just one second. Particularly with regards to the economy, which it's very unclear which way the economy is going to go.

0 (15m 51s):
I have my doubts.

Ruff Greens (15m 53s):
First, we have a wonderful dog. His name is Happy yesterday. He had a wonderful time. We took him out. He was meeting all of the other dogs. He's being extremely cute. My kids love him, which is why we want him to live a long and happy life. This is why we give him Rough Greens every morning. The dog food you've been giving at your dog, well, it's dead food. It doesn't have that much nutritional value. Look at it. That brown food doesn't exactly scream nutritional, but green food does. Rough Greens boost happy food back to life? It can do the same for your dog as well. You don't have to go out and buy new dog food. Just sprinkles from Rough Greens on their food every single day contains all the necessary vitamins and minerals your dog is not getting from their regular dog food. Rough Greens is the only supplement your dog will ask for by name, Rough Greens. You get it? It's like it's a pun about Rough Naturopathic. Dr. Dennis Black, the founder of Rough Greens, he's so confident this product will improve your dog's health. He's offering my listeners a free Jumpstart trial bag. Head on over to Rough Greens dot com slash Ben. Let Rough Greens bring your dog's food back to life. That's R U F F Greens dot com slash Ben today, or call 8 3 3 MY DOG 33. That's 8 3 3 MY DOG 33. Again, R u f Greens dot com slash Ben today, and get that free Jumpstart trial bag today as well.

9 (16m 57s):
Okay, so meanwhile, the economy continues to be on sort of the edge here. So Jerome Powell gave a speech in Jackson Hole over the weekend. He's the head of the Federal Reserve, and I will say it once again, the fact that our entire economy is run by a small cabal of human beings who preside over massive, enormous global economy.

0 (17m 15s):
Breaking power with regard to central banking is despicable. It really is despicable. The gold standard used to take this directly outta the hands of bureaucratic, quote unquote experts. I'm not saying these people are uniquely bad. What I'm saying is the system of incentives is uniquely bad. The fact that Federal Reserve has been tasked with simultaneously keeping inflation low and keeping employment high, it used to be that that was the job of, you know, legislatures. That was the job, and now when you hand it off to the Federal Reserve, basically their job is to continue to backfill all the bad legislation coming outta Washington dc Fiscal responsibility can only happen when you don't have a bunch of central bankers who are manipulating the switches behind the scenes. In any case, Jerome Powell, who everybody now watches like you watch a papal conclave after trying to pick a new Pope, right?

0 (17m 59s):
You're just waiting for the smoke to emerge, and that's how we now watch these economic events, which is insane. So Jerome Powell in a room in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, because this is how, again, our macroeconomics is now done, he gave a speech talking about inflation and the interest rates. A lot of people are worried, particularly that the Federal Reserve and that central banks across the world are going to continue to raise those interest rates in an effort to quell inflation, and in doing so, they're basically going to clamp down on the ability of lenders to lend. They're going to increase standards for lenders because the money ain't gonna be quite as easy to recoup and, and they're afraid. That will tip us over into recession. Here is Jerome Powell. Over the weekend,

10 (18m 37s):
2% is and will remain our inflation target. We are committed to achieving and sustain sustaining a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to bring inflation down to that level over time. It is challenging, of course, to know in real time when such a stance has been achieved,

0 (18m 57s):
Okay? Meanwhile, he says, is he gonna give any guidance? I mean we all know that he wants to bring inflation down to 2%. That's always the target rate for the Federal Reserve, which by the way, is in and of it itself immoral. Now, lemme just point out that a 2% inflation rate over the course of 50 years is a 100% inflation rate, which is why everything is way more expensive in just Pure dollar terms than it used to be. The fact that we deliberately inflate the currency in order to artificially jog consumer spending in this country is a, is is what we would call a niche ashanda. It is something that is shameful. We should not be doing this. We are actively degrading people's savings in order to jog fake consumer spending, which does not actually generate innovation. By the way, what generates innovation is investment. What generates innovation is r and d.

0 (19m 38s):
What generates innovation is not you buying an additional hamburger today that doesn't generate the new products and services that make the world a better place. In any case, Jerome Powell then gave very little guidance. He basically just kind of said, well, you know, we don't know. You don't know. Nobody knows.

10 (19m 53s):
As is often the case, we are navigating by the stars under cloudy skies. In such circumstances, risk management considerations are critical. At upcoming meetings, we will assess our progress based on the totality of the data and the evolving outlook and risks. Based on this assessment, we'll proceed carefully as we decide whether to tighten further or instead to hold the policy rate constant and await further data.

0 (20m 21s):
Okay, well that's, that is very edifying In just one second, we'll get to what that means for the economy.

Stamps.com (20m 26s):
First, if you're in a small business, very important to plan ahead. One of the best ways to do that, you have to use Stamps dot com to mail and ship Stamps dot com lets you print your own postage and shipping labels right from your home or office. It's ready to go in minutes so you can get back to running your business sooner. Stamps dot com offers rates you can't find anywhere else, like up to 84% off U S P S and U P SS rates. Plus, they automatically tell you your cheapest and fastest shipping options. For 25 years, Stamps dot com has been indispensable for over 1 million businesses. Get access to the shipping services you need to run your business right from your computer, no lines, no traffic, and no waiting. You can print postage wherever you do business. They then send you a free scale. You'll have everything you need to get started Here at DailyWire, we don't waste our time. We've been using Stamps dot com since 2017. You should do the same. Set your business up for success. Get started today with Stamps dot com. Sign up with promo code Shapiro Get, a special offer that includes a four week trial, plus free postage and free digital scale. No long-term commitments, no contracts. Just go to Stamps dot com, click that microphone at the top of the homepage. Enter in promo code Shapiro. Again, that's Stamps dot com. Click the mic at the top of the homepage. Enter code Shapiro. Get started. Save your business time and money. Get that special offer, including a four week trial plus free postage and free digital scale. Go check them out right now. Stamps dot com.

10 (21m 31s):
Okay, so what does all this mean for the economy? Well, according to the Wall Street Journal, Powell's message wasn't terribly different from his previous comments. Analysts and investors said it wasn't music to the ears of many of the portfolio managers who have been crossing their fingers.

0 (21m 42s):
The fastest rate cycle in decades is finally at an end. Stocks Rose Friday afternoon, a rare advance in an August slog for US indices, but futures markets showed a greater expectation. Rates could stay higher for longer. They will, okay, these rates are not going anywhere for a bit. At what point does the bond market provide competition to the stock market In the eyes of investors, said David, to noian, the Chief Investment officer of C I B C, private wealth us, right? The, the idea would be that the stock market right now is, is still inflated a little bit, although US indices remain in the green for the year, this month has been difficult for investors in riskier air assets, signs of continued strength in the US economy, a flood of treasury debt, sales expectations. The Fed could keep higher rates higher for longer lifted government bond yields to decade plus highs traders on Friday assigned a 54% probability to the central bank lifting rates again by the end of the year.

0 (22m 26s):
That's up from 32% that they estimated a week earlier. Again, the fact that everybody is now sitting around and reading chicken end trails as to what a bunch of central bankers are gonna do with the rates is absurd. There is a natural rate of inflation. The natural rate of inflation occurs based on products and services and productivity. There's a natural rate to lending. A natural interest rates exist. They're different from economy to economy. They are not consistent. They should not be set by any central point. It's amazing that many of the same free market economic thinkers who understand that no one cadre of people is capable of setting prices in literally any other area of the American economy, believes that there is a cadre of people who should be setting the price of debt.

0 (23m 9s):
That's totally insane. It's, it is not just people like me who believe this. Muhammad Al Arian of Allianz, he wrote a book a long time ago called The Only Game In Town, all about how basically central banks now control virtually all of economic policy. Well, they ain't gonna be able to save, and this creates such a set of perverse incentives. The perverse incentive is if you're a member of the legislature, you just spend endlessly hoping the Federal Reserve is gonna come in like mommy and kiss the boo boo, and that's basically Jerome's Powell job. The problem is that means that everybody else out here who's trying to invest, we don't have an idea what Jerome Powell is gonna do tomorrow. You're sitting around waiting for this guy to figure out exactly what the plan is for all the rest of our lives, and you don't even have a say in it because that's not an elected position. The fact that there is not more hue and cry about the outsized powers of the Federal Reserve is absolutely beyond me, especially because it's not as those central bankers know what the hell they're doing.

0 (23m 58s):
Again, whenever you have a small cadre of experts who say that they know exactly what they're doing, that is almost never the case. According to the Wall Street Journal, central bankers from around the world are finally getting the inflation slowdown they've been expecting, but they worry won't last. That apprehension explained the uneasy optimism on underlying their discussions here in the Wyoming Mountains this weekend about whether interest rates have reached a summit. Federal Reserve officials are grappling with new economic crosscurrents. US consumer spending has grown faster than they expected in recent months, buoy by higher inflation adjusted wages, stronger demand prompted concerns, it might prevent inflation from falling further, but a recent surge in long-term government bond yields combined with weakening growth abroad could help touch off a US economic slowdown. Fed officials who've been trying to engineer by raising rates aggressively over the past 18 months. The problem is, once you tip over that cliff, you don't know what's, you know how far down it is.

0 (24m 44s):
Meanwhile, China, they've destroyed their own economy. They've been doing that over the course of the last few decades, have been hiding it with fake growth numbers based largely on borrowing extraordinary sums of money and then spending it on empty cities. Well, now, according to the Wall Street Journal, ideology is driving China's economic policy to a degree, not seen since the country's opening to the west nearly half a century ago, deterring its leaders from taking steps to spur the sputtering economy. So it used to be that when China got in trouble, they might try a little free market stuff. Not anymore. Economists and investors have been calling on Beijing to make bolder efforts to boost output, especially by promoting consumer spending if necessary, by offering cash handouts as the US did during the pandemic. But top leaders, Xi Jinping has deep rooted philosophical objections to Western style consumption driven growth. People familiar with decision making in Beijing sei, she sees such growth as wasteful and at odds with his goal of making China a world leading industrial and technological powerhouse.

0 (25m 30s):
Now, the way that China could theoretically do that is, you know, open up, but they're not gonna open up, so instead they're just gonna follow this corporatist path. What's amazing is that the same corpus path that China follows is one Democrats in the United States wish to follow it's China that takes hundreds of billions of dollars and just shovels it into particular industries in the belief that this will somehow magically fix their ailing economy. Joe Biden wants to do the same thing here. He calls it omics. The communist Chinese call it communism, but isn't either, but it really is, is corporatism. It really is the government picking and choosing particular business sectors or businesses that they think are the most important business sectors or businesses and taking money away from the most efficient to give to these particular sectors. It exists on both the left and the right by the way, and all it really is is favoritism combined with political ideology, which is not the way that free market economics is supposed to work.

0 (26m 16s):
It does not generate the most efficient levels of growth. It does not generate the best outcomes for the vast majority of the population. The fact that the west wishes to copy China is China falls directly into the pit is, is absolutely insane. But again, the illusion of control is such a, it is so just desirous for so many people in positions of power, the illusion that they alone can control, they alone can fix, give me enough power and I'll fix the American economy. Now, the answer, whenever you hear a president of either party say he has created jobs. That is a law. The president of the United States does not create jobs, neither do congresspeople. You create the jobs in your business. I create the jobs in my business, we create the job. I know because we sign the paychecks over here, the fact that the federal government pretends that it creates jobs, the federal government can take away jobs by destroying the baseline preconditions for economic growth, and that is one of the things that happens when you participate in the economic favoritism and the corporatism that both parties engage in here in the United States, and that is engaged in by some of the most economically fascist countries on the planet.

0 (27m 16s):
By the way, all of this is having pretty dire effects, not just on the world economy, but more specifically on the lower end of the world economy. You're starting to see a bunch of countries absolutely collapse in terms of emerging markets. Emerging markets are especially sensitive to Fed policy according to the Wall Street Journal, because higher US rates make riskier assets less attractive to investors, right? You're not gonna invest in Nigerian and bonds if the money is just not as easy, so get ready for, for all those people who believe that the the markets are on solid footing. I have, I have a bridge in Brooklyn that is for sale at the moment. Okay? Meanwhile, on the Republican side of the Al Joe Biden is incredibly vulnerable. Even Democrats are noticing this, which is presumably why you have Bernie Sanders traveling to New Hampshire.

0 (27m 58s):
Republicans are steaming toward Donald Trump nomination. There's just no two ways about it right now. The 2024 presidential nomination, the update in the real clear politics polling average has Donald trump up 40 points over the rest of the field. There has been some sign that Vive The Ramez Swami is starting to recede back to the field that Nikki Haley is starting to pick up a little bit of ground. The solid number two continues to be Ron DeSantis by pretty much all the available polling data right now. He continues to be number two. Pence is picking up a little bit of ground in some of the latest polls. By a little I mean he's up to five or 6% in some of the latest polls. Nobody is within shouting distance of Donald Trump after Donald. Trump's pick was took at the, at the Georgia Courthouse, at the Fulton County courthouse.

0 (28m 39s):
It wasn't the courthouse, the jail at the Fulton County Jail. He raised more money on that day alone than he had the entirety of the campaign, which is both I, I would say, encouraging in the sense that Republicans are very, very motivated and a little bit discouraging in the fact that if you want Donald Trump to be president, probably you shouldn't wanna be president just because he took a Mugshot. Now, as I said, the Mugshot is an amazing, amazing marketing opportunity for Donald Trump. I talked about it on Friday. It's a great Mugshot if there is such a thing, and it's a great, and there are I mean Frank Sinatras most famously, like there are great and iconic mugshots. This is an iconic Mugshot. Well, Trump turned that Georgia Mugshot into gold. According to Politico, Trump raised $7.1 million since he was booked at an Atlanta jail on Thursday evening.

0 (29m 23s):
According to figures provided first to Politico by his campaign on Friday alone, Trump raised $4.18 million. That is the single highest 24 hour period of his campaign to date. According to a person familiar with the totals and the campaign's, fundraising has been powered by merch. It's been selling through the online store, which again makes sense is all people signaling to each other that they also wish to throw the establishment the giant orange middle finger. The campaign has also been prodding online donors with emails and text messages as well. Trump's campaign says it has raised nearly $20 million in the last three weeks based on the repeated charges against him. Now, as I said last week, the polling does not demonstrate that Donald Trump is likely to win election. Based on this. It demonstrates that he is likely to win the nomination based on the, based on the charges against him.

0 (30m 9s):
But the fact is that most Americans unfortunately still believe that Trump should stand trial before the 2024 election. He has a court date in Georgia today. He has another one in DC today. All this is gonna be about setting the timeline. The court date in DC is all about setting the Jack Smith January 6th case. Is that gonna be before the election or after? His team is trying to argue he shouldn't be tried there until 2026 actually, which I think is unlikely. Meanwhile, in Georgia, it's not really about Trump, but there's a legal case against Mark Meadows that is ongoing there. Mark Meadows is trying to have that court move his case to federal court, and he's then going to claim that basically the supremacy clause prevents him from being tried in state court that whatever crimes he supposedly committed, he committed as a federal official, as chief of staffs to Donald Trump, and therefore he should be tried in federal court, not in state court. If Trump tried the same thing, that would at least foreclose the possibility that he'd be tried and convicted in a state court and then he'd be on the ballot and then you have a real mess, a constitutional mess because the president can't pardon himself of a non-federal offense.

0 (31m 1s):
But again, the polling does not show that the general public overall is incredibly warm toward Donald Trump's legal troubles. There are some people who are more warm than they otherwise would've been, but they were kinda lukewarm to begin with, like, I'm more animated on behalf of Trump because of the trials than I otherwise would've been, but I voted for Trump in 2020, so I can't vote for him twice. You look at the polling data from political and what it shows is that 61% of Americans believe that Trump's election trials should take place before the election 61%. Meanwhile, 51% believe that Trump is guilty of alleged crimes in the federal 2020 election, subversion election case against 26% who say no, and those are not great numbers.

0 (31m 43s):
Meanwhile, a plurality of respondents to politicos had a conviction in the case, 44% would've no impact on their likelihood of supporting Trump, which makes sense. Again, you figure half of those people are pro, half those people are against, but among people who said that the result would inform their vote. Nearly one third of respondents, 32% said a conviction would make them less likely to support Trump. That includes one third of independence. Only 13% of respondents total said a conviction would make them more likely to support Trump. That figure was more likely Republicans than not, and by the way, the numbers could go down because as the case drags on and as sort of the shock of Trump being indicted, drags on, it becomes less shocking and more normal and then this becomes baked into the cake. By the way, if you look at at who is considered a a villain in this particular case, here's, here's the polling data again, political magazine episodes poll.

0 (32m 31s):
Do you have a favorable or unfavorable opinion of the action statements and behavior of the following people regarding the cases against Trump? 58% unfavorable, 27% favorable. Joe Biden, 45% unfavorable, 36% favorable. That is a nine point gap negative for Biden. That is a 29% gap for Donald Trump right there. Jack Smith to this point still has more favorables than Unfavorables and so does the DOJ, so if the hope here is that Donald Trump's legal cases are going to spur him to the presidency, again, I think there's a high possibility they spur him to the nomination, but I think that there's a much lower chance that they actually have the sort of countervailing effect that, that a lot of people have said about impeachment. I've never bought the argument by the way that impeaching somebody actually helps them electorally.

0 (33m 12s):
I, I still have yet to see the evidence of that. Bill Clinton was impeached in 1998. Maybe it helped Democrats a little bit in sort of the midterm elections. It didn't help Al Gore in 2000 and obviously impeaching Trump twice didn't really make a difference on behalf of Trump in the 2020 election either. Meanwhile, there is a case afoot to now truly that you wanna talk about election interference. This would be true election interference against Trump. We'll get to that in just one second.

Helix (33m 38s):
First, everybody knows I love my Helix mattress. Did you know they just launched their newest, most high-end collection? The Helix Elite Helix has harnessed years of extensive mattress expertise to bring their customers a truly elevated sleep experience. That Helix Elite Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for specific sleep positions and firmness preferences as well. We've had our Helix sleep mattress seven, eight years at this point. As I've said before, it basically is the thing keeping me alive 'cause my kids keep me up, they wake me up early. I have to go to bed late because of the baby and all the rest. Helix has a sleep quiz that matches your body type and sleep preferences to the perfect mattress for you. Why wouldn't you buy a mattress made for somebody else? I took that Helix quiz. I was match with a firm but breathable mattress. Go to Helix sleep dot com slash Ben, take that two minute sleep code, find the perfect mattress for your body or sleep type. Your mattress will come directly at your door shipped for free, and again, they've got a 10 year warranty. You can try it out for a hundred nights risk free. You got nothing to lose in honor of Labor Day. Helix is offering 25% off all mattress orders and two free pillows. For my listeners, head over to Helix sleep dot com slash Ben. Use code Helix partner 25. It is their best offer, yet it's not going to last long with Helix. Better sleep starts right now, so head on over again to Helix sleep dot com slash Ben and use code Helix partner 25 to get started.

Jeremy's Razors (34m 42s):
Also, it's time to show you something unparalleled, something magnificent. Look at the wow. Wow. It's Soap. This, this is so soapy. It's the Soapies Soap. You ever soaped wash your hands of all of your problems with Jeremy's brand new hand Soap, Jeremy's hand Soap. It is the perfect solution for everyday grit and grime. It smells delightful. It's s it with green tea and citrus. There's no paraben in it. Again, I still after months do not know a paraben is. Someone's gonna have to explain it to me, but it's also free of sulfates. Dunno what those are, but it is also free of left wing ideology. I know what that is and it's bad. It's not tested on animals. It's made right here in the United States. What more could you want from a hand Soap? It keeps your hands clean. You wash your hands with it. Guys, I don't know what to tell you. You put it in the bathroom, put it in the kitchen, and then you don't have dirty hands. When it's time to clean your hands with Jeremy's hand Soap, go check it out right now. Very important to keep your hands clean unlike the Biden family. Head over to jeremy's Razors dot com right now. Order your green tea and citrus hand Soap today and, and for God's sake, wash your hands

10 (35m 40s):
. Okay, meanwhile, now when Donald Trump talks about election interference and he talks about these cases, yeah, they're a form of election interference for sure, no question, but here's like some actual direct election interference and it's coming from inside the house. According to Byron York, some of Donald Trump's enemies are now attempting to have him removed from state primary ballots.

0 (35m 58s):
According to York, he says that even though conviction does not legally bar Trump from running and winning, the hope is there is no way a convicted Trump could regain the presidency from left. But there are some of Trump's opponents who are going further. They're now exploring the possibility that Trump is already disqualified from running for office state. Election boards are secretaries of state. They say can and should simply remove his name from the ballot in their states. No need for a hearing, a trial, legal ruling legislation or any of the other stuff. Now, how would this magical silliness work? The magical result occurs proponents say by way of the 14th Amendment. Section three of the amendment prohibits anyone who has taken an oath to uphold the constitution and then engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the United States or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof, whomever holding public office. Section three was intended to apply to former Confederate officials.

0 (36m 41s):
It hasn't played any significant role in American governance since 1872 and it was basically a dead letter. Now, some people are saying they should use it against Trump. Now what's hilarious about that is that the entire claim against Trump for all the bad stuff that he did between November and January of 2021, the claim is there was no legal basis for Mike Pence to simply throw out state certified electoral votes based on like nothing in the Constitution. You can't just make that judgment. There has to be like an actual reason that you are doing it, but now Trump's opponents are attempting to do precisely that against him on these state ballots. It's absurd. It's not going to happen. If it were to happen, it would be a complete disaster area for both the Republican party and the country. You can't just take people off the ballot without like an actual legal reason to take them off the ballot.

0 (37m 26s):
Totally crazy. Okay, meanwhile, Ron DeSantis has paused his campaign because there are a bunch of issues in the state of Florida, particularly this giant storm that is bearing down on the Gulf Coast. According to Politico, he canceled campaign events this week as a major storm bears down on the state and also in the aftermath of this horrific racist shooting in Jacksonville, which we'll get to momentarily, DeSantis said during a Sunday news conference, he's gonna remain in Florida in the coming days because tropical Storm Idalia is expected to become a hurricane and make landfall along the Gulf Coast. Later this week, he says, we're locked in on this. We're gonna get the job done. I'm here. He was slated to scan campaign in South Carolina on Monday, probably, I assume Casey will be taking his place at some of those events. DeSantis also went to a vigilance Sunday night for a shooting left three people dead in Jacksonville on Saturday before the gunman killed himself.

0 (38m 13s):
DeSantis began a Sunday news conference by condemning the shooting. Here was Ron DeSantis showing up at a vigil over the weekend and a bunch of idiots started shouting at him because supposedly what the governor of the state is not supposed to show up in solidarity with communities that are afflicted by white supremacist mass killings. I, I, I'm, I'm so confused why you would shout at somebody over this. In any case, hero was DeSantis and the hero of this particular story is a Democrat council member named Jacoby Pittman, who steps in here and basically tells the protestors, shut up. We're all on the same side of this one.

11 (38m 46s):
We are not gonna allow these institutions to be targeted by people we hold.

12 (38m 56s):
Lemme lemme say this,

13 (38m 57s):
Okay, listen, y'all, let me, let me tell you, we finna put parties aside because it ain't, it ain't about parties today. A bullet, don't know a party, so don't get me started.

0 (39m 10s):
Okay? This is one of the beautiful things I will say about living in Florida, and this is why there are DeSantis Democrats as well in the state of Florida, is that in Florida, when it comes to times of actual crisis, everybody is on the same side. By the way, that is the nature of what a community should be is when there's a crisis. All this stuff goes to the wayside. The fact that there are people who are protesting when this sort of stuff happens, and DeSantis has not responsible in any way for this. His response has not been lackluster. It's not as though he went no comment and then went for a week on the beach while all this sort of stuff happened, like this was absolutely apolitical, good for this city councilwoman for, for doing that. Believe it or not, there are members of Trump's campaign who are cheering on all of this nonsense.

0 (39m 49s):
The people who are protesting Laura Loomer, predictably enough, who is desperate to be Donald Trump's press secretary, which for entertainment value would be very, very high, I will say she, of course, was, was celebrating people yelling at Ron DeSantis for, for being terrible enough to show up at this, at this particular event. She said, I'm glad he was booed. He's disingenuous just in absurdity obviously. She said, well, well, governor DeSantis was heckled at a vigil for the victims of a shooting in Jacksonville, Florida. Dollar General today, comments he made back in July about Florida are coming back to bite him in the ass. Come on. Like, seriously, come on. Ridiculous kind of stuff, but DeSantis is doing what he's supposed to do. He's the governor of Florida, he's back in the state, and, and he's going to be there overseeing whatever happens with regard to this Florida hurricane.

0 (40m 38s):
Meanwhile, it is worthwhile noting here that again, in the state of Florida, Florida is a fascinating and and complex state. I I know because I now live here. I'm a resident, and you know, this, this particular shooting is, is obviously it was motivated by white supremacy. According to the Wall Street Journal authorities in Jacksonville, Florida identified a local 21 year old Sunday as a white gunman who shot and killed three black victims at a Dollar General store before killing himself and attacked local and federal officials, said was racially motivated. The gunman then shot himself who was carrying a handgun and a military style semi-automatic rifle with swastikas marked on it. According to the police, the Jacksonville sheriff TK Waters said this was pretty obviously motivated by, by hatred of black people.

14 (41m 19s):
Our community is grappling to understand why this atrocity occurred. I urge us all not to look for sense and a senseless act of violence. There's no reason or explanation that we'll ever account for the shooter's decisions and actions. His sickening ideology is not representative of the values of this Jacksonville community that we all love so much. We are not a community of hate. We stand united with a good and decent people of this city. We reject this inexcusable violence and this agency will not rest until this investigation is complete and every available avenue of accountability has been exhausted.

0 (41m 56s):
Okay? It is perfectly worthwhile to talk about the ideology of the shooter. The shooter did not have a criminal history, but in 2016 was named in a domestic disturbance call in 2017, had to be put on a 72 hour hold for a mental health evaluation. You know, I I will point out at this point that Whenever, there is a white supremacist shooting. We know the motives like right away, and Whenever, there is a pretty obviously motivated anti-Christian shooting, say, in Nashville, Tennessee. Just to take a quick example, we still don't have the manifesto of that shooter, and it has been how many months since all of that happened, which seems bizarre to me at the, at the very, very least, the, the shooting obviously was condemned by everyone ranging from President Biden who said, we must refuse to live in a country where black families going to the store or black students going to school live in fear of being gunned down because of the color of their skin, which of course is true.

0 (42m 40s):
Governor DeSantis said something similar. He called the shooting horrific and said that the state was offering support to the local authorities, but as I say, Florida is a fascinating and complex place. Here was Governor DeSantis speaking about the shooting

11 (42m 53s):
Florida the state and its people condemn the horrific racially motivated murders perpetrated by a deranged scumbag in Jacksonville at the Dollar General Store. Perpetrating violence of this kind is unacceptable and targeting people due to their race has no place in the state of Florida. Casey and I extend condolences to the victims of their and their families on behalf of the entire state of Florida,

0 (43m 21s):
And so that was his statement. Meanwhile, the sheriff over here again, a a man named TK Waters, he says, you know, you wanna try to blame the guns. It's not about the guns, it's about the person who's wielding the guns.

14 (43m 31s):
The, the story's always about guns. This people are bad. This guy's a bad guy. If I could take my gun off right now and I lay it on this counter, nothing will happen. It'll sit there, but as soon as a wicked person grabs a hold of that handgun and starts shooting people with it, there's the problem. The problem is the individual.

0 (43m 49s):
Okay? So that is the part of the press conference. The mainstream media will never show you, they'll show you him talking about the white supremacy. They'll never tell you that. What he's saying is that, yes, it was the shooter who pulled the trigger, and there there are a lot of black Americans, by the way, who are very, very pro-gun and it's something that the left wishes to, to obscure. Meanwhile, the rest of the Republican field is, is trying to figure out a way to pry away some of DeSantis support and all of them are way the hell behind Trump. Obviously, Nikki Haley who picked up some ground after her last good debate performance, and by the polling she did have probably the best night of, of anyone in terms of the amount of movement that her candidacy actually experienced. She was asked about President Trump and him leading in the polls. She said, why would I drop out for Trump?

6 (44m 29s):
Carrie Lake, she's calling on all of the candidates to pause the campaign to get behind Donald Trump because of two applications of the law. I, I suppose you're not considering that

15 (44m 41s):
I mean. I appreciate anybody's view on what should happen, but we've got a a country to save and I'm not gonna stop until we save her. I think that we look at the fact that we're $32 trillion in debt. You've got crime that's up. You've got a lack of transparency in the classroom. You've got an open border and we have threats facing us around the world, and I think that we need a new generational leader. We have some serious problems, we need new solutions.

0 (45m 7s):
Okay, so she's not going anywhere. Now the problem is that of course the field can fragment six ways, so you've got got Nikki Haley who presumably if she continues to show some sort of credibility in the race. I, I assume Tim Scott at some point is gonna drop out because he really has no support other than from some money people, if he drops out. Some of that support, I assume, will move over to Haley, which makes her more competitive in South Carolina, which ironically makes Donald Trump a lot more competitive in South Carolina because if the South Carolina primary splits Trump DeSantis, Haley, Trump probably walks away with the nomination fairly easily, even if this race gets a lot tighter. Meanwhile, Chris Christie continues to double down on the never Trump lane thinking this is gonna win him New Hampshire. Here he was over the weekend

16 (45m 45s):
And, and the truth is that, you know, we can't have a convicted felon as our nominee for president and expect we're going to win. And it was really the most amazing part of the debate to me was the idea that, you know, the majority of my competitors believed that you can have a convicted felon as our nominee for president and that they'd support that and that he could win. I think that's an impossibility.

0 (46m 12s):
Okay, so I mean that is not what they were saying on the stage. They were saying if he's the nominee against Biden, I'll vote for him. That's not quite the same thing as we think that he's likely to win. If all those people on the stage thought he was likely to win, they wouldn't be running. I assume. Meanwhile, the person who's sort of running still as Donald Trump's shadow is Vivek Ram Swami. Vivek in the polling data has taken some hits since the debate, but of course he wanted to be a lightning rod. He is a lightning rod and his real campaign isn't for the presidency. So I'm not sure that he caress. I think the idea that he's getting all sorts of outsized detention means that he's pretty well set up for, say, an Ohio Senate run Ohio is his place of residence, or for being a Donald Trump cabinet pick, or for a vp. Well, he is now in an attempt to bend over backwards for Trump, shifted his opinion completely on Donald Trump's behavior after January 6th.

0 (46m 55s):
So if you look at his one, one of his books, one of his latest books, he talks specifically about January 6th, and he says that, you know, when you lose an election, you should just admit you lost an election. He has now changed his opinion radically. Here is a, he was not asked during the debate. A lot of other candidates were asked during the debate about Mike Pence's behavior on January 6th, did he do the right thing in certifying the election? The answer, by the way, is yes, unequivocally yes, there is no legal basis for Mike Pence to overturn state certified election results. I'm sorry if that hurts feelings. That's just the way that it is. But Vivek has tried to, he's trying to square the circle here and come up with a way of pleasing Donald Trump and ripping my Pence, even though he knows perfectly well that Mike Pence did the right thing on January 6th. Here he was saying a thing that makes no sense at all, and again, Vikk is too smart for this.

17 (47m 39s):
The candidates on stage Wednesday night said Mike Pence did the right thing on January 6th. Do you agree?

18 (47m 46s):
I would've done it very differently. I think that there was a historic opportunity that he missed to reunite this country in that window. What I would've said is this is a moment for a true national consensus where there's two elements of what's required for a functioning democracy in America. One is secure elections, and the second is a peaceful transfer of power. When those things come into conflict, that's an opportunity for heroism. Here's what I would've said. We need single day voting on election day. We need paper ballots and we need government issued ID matching the voter file, and if we achieve that, then we have achieved victory and we should not have wolf any further complaint about election integrity. So what would you

17 (48m 25s):
Have done with Mike Pence? You would've not in my capacity certified the election.

18 (48m 29s):
So in, in my capacity as president of the Senate, I would've led through that level of reform. Then on that condition certified the election results, served it up to the president, president Trump then designed that into law, and on January 7th declared the reelection campaign pursuant to a free and fair election. I think that was a missed opportunity, but that's the kind of spirit we're gonna need to unite this country rather than sweeping those concerns under the rug.

0 (48m 54s):
So just to get this straight, his solution was that on January 6th, after Donald, Trump had spent two months lying that Mike Pence could unilaterally overturn the election, that on January 6th he would've not certified the election on the condition that they pass a law doing all the things that I like, I like those things also, but that's not what the president of the Senate actually does. He doesn't initiate legislation. He's a deciding vote. He's not a senator. Okay? But according to vi vague, he should, you know, go outside his constitutional duty. He should start proposing legislation. Mike Pence not certify the election in defiance of his actual job as the president protime of the Senate. And then he should at that point, certify the election the next day and this would heal America's conflicts. Yeah, Donald Trump definitely would've been happy with that.

0 (49m 35s):
Probably Donald Trump would've said, okay, now that he fixed the next election, I'm really, really happy with the results of this one. Probably everything would've gone away. What is he even talking about I mean? Like Vivek is a very smart guy, okay? No, Vivek, he's a super HighQ dude. He knows way better than this, and this is part of my frustration with his candidacy is when he gain this much credibility this quickly, when he gain this much attention this quickly, it seems to me that you have sort of a duty to say honest things. And again, his entire campaign is truth. He wouldn't have done that. He knows he wouldn't have done that. Come on, he knows he wouldn't have done that because he literally didn't do that. Okay, I, I've spoken with vk after January 6th, between January, that's when I actually spent the most time with Vivek. It's between January 6th and like now. And Vivek has never talked this way.

0 (50m 15s):
I mean he literally talked the opposite in his book. Okay? But thi this is, I, you know, for, for, for people to shift with the prevailing winds bothers me. And again, I feel like we're talking about blown opportunities. Vivek has an opportunity. This is a dude from the outside who's extraordinarily wealthy, really, really bright and has the opportunity to shift the debate in a lot of really fascinating and interesting directions. And instead he's saying things that he knows are not actually viable or true. I think because again, I, I don't think that what he's saying is coherent and I think he's a coherent guy. So for example, he has a piece in the American conservative today about his foreign policy and in it he says, I will lead our nation from the bloody follies of neo-conservatism and liberal internationalism abroad sort of strategy that affirmatively defends our homeland.

0 (50m 60s):
We'll be uncle sucker no more. Rather than spending billions projecting power into global vacuums where our allies will not spend to maintain it themselves. We'll put America first again as George Washington urged, as we recalibrate and consider our true interest. So first of all, lemme just point out every Republican candidate and most democratic candidates campaign on exactly the same language, virtually no one campaigns on the language of unlimited spending on foreign policy and interventionism everywhere. Barack Obama didn't campaign on that in 2008. George Shelby Bushin campaigned on that in 2000. The only candidate I can think of who actually campaigned sort of like that was McCain in 2008. But every other candidate of my lifetime has campaigned in exactly the way that Vivek is now talking about the part. So I don't have a problem with any of this, that the problem that I have with this is that he seems to believe that like just random things happen in foreign policy.

0 (51m 44s):
So for example, here's his solution to Ukraine. Now here's my position on Ukraine. My position on Ukraine is that the United States should be taking the leadership position in negotiations with the Russians. We should basically be saying to the Russians, we are willing to allow you to maintain occupancy of Crimea and part of the Donbass region. In return, we are going to give security guarantees, but not NATO membership to the Ukrainians and that's gonna be the end of the war. Vivek wants to go one step further in a way that I don't think is even plausible. Okay? Here's what he says. He says, I'll go to Moscow in 2025. I'll deliver peace in Ukraine only under the terms that you mattered to US terms that put American interest first, the Biden administration has foolishly tried to get G to dump Putin, right? China to dump Russia. In reality, we should get Putin to Tji.

0 (52m 26s):
Okay? Now, nope, I'm just gonna put that out. Nope. Russia is a giant gas station with nuclear weapons. That is its entire economy. You think they're going to dump China? That that is not a thing that is going to happen. It is a weak state with no international ties. Signing a peace agreement with Russia is not going to restore those international ties to the extent necessary that Russia would suddenly, magically decide to dump China. A good deal requires all parties to get something out of it. To that end, I'll accept Russian control of the occupied territories and pledge to block Ukraine's candidacy for NATO in exchange for Russia exiting its military alliance with China. You know, Russia's gonna do, not that they're not gonna exit their military alliance with China. Why the hell would they, China's the only competitive power on the world stage through the United States.

0 (53m 8s):
And then meanwhile, he says, for example, that he's going to, he's going to declare economic independence from China, which is fine. And then he says that he's going to be clearer with regard to Taiwan. So his take on Taiwan is he says that we have operated in strategic ambiguity with regard to Taiwan for far too long. I'll move to, to strategic clarity by which I mean that China must understand. I will defend American interest in Taiwan. If Taiwan wants any partnership in their defense, they'll need to raise their defense spending and military readiness to acceptable levels. Meanwhile, I'll commit to making sure Taiwan has the weapons they need for that defense, but from a seaborne invasion and in the future for long-term insurgency against any occupying foreign force if needed, okay? That. Now there's only one problem with that. That is our current policy.

0 (53m 49s):
That is exactly our current policy. That is strategic ambiguity by the way that we will arm them. But we're not, did I miss the part in that paragraph where he says whether we will actually like actively defend Taiwan in case of a Chinese invasion? I did not. Yeah. This kind of stuff from vague, it's the reason why he, his surge was based on the idea that he was a free radical. He could say whatever he wanted and then it appears that he's now saying things. He's got a little bit of audience capture. It seems like he's saying things that he wants people to think he believes, but it seems unlikely that, that he actually believes those things. And I think that's one of the things that came off on the stage the other night for vague. So my recommendation to him in this campaign, if he actually wants to take it, you know, as a presidential candidate, is stop trying to please President Trump personally and start actively saying the things that people need to hear.

0 (54m 35s):
Because I think he has the strength of character to do all those things. Okay? Meanwhile, let's do some, let's do some things I like and some things that I hate. So things that I like over the weekend. I've read a, you know, my, my sort of brain relaxation is sports. I'm a big basketball fan. Rich Cohen, who's one of my favorite writers, wrote a great sports book called When the Game Was War. It comes out this week, it really is fantastic. So I, this is like my early childhood, so it's about the 87, 88 season. I was only three or four years old, but I remember all of these players because they all continue to play until the early nineties. This is like Bird Magic Jordan, Isaiah, Thomas, Charles Barkley, and all the rest. And the book is just a fun, fun read because Rich is a terrific writer.

0 (55m 17s):
It moves really fast and it, it reminds you of a time when basketball was, was less about the pretty and much more about the gritty. It's, it's, it's a lot of fun. Again, highly recommended when the game was War by Rich Cohen. Okay, another thing that I like, so environmentalists, they think that somehow they're gonna gain support for their cause by being incredibly annoying. Like super duper annoying. What if I glue myself to this Van Gogh painting and everybody's like, I hope that they just dump you into the river. And they'll be like, well what if I, what if I just, you know, take this road and shut it down? Everybody's like, what if we just, you know, let people run you over because you're annoying. You're very, very annoying. Nobody wants anyone to die, but like, come on, get off the road. In any case, these idiots in Nevada decided to, to shut down a road in Nevada with signs like abolish capitalism.

0 (56m 1s):
Well, capitalism unfortunately for them was not abolished and instead they were abolished. So basically tribal rangers were like, nah, you know what, you're holding up the line and here's what occurred,

19 (56m 11s):
Man, get off the highway. This is a state route. Everybody will be arrested. If not 30 seconds, send your leader to my vehicle. Let's talk. Get off the road.

0 (56m 31s):
Yeah, yeah, that's the good stuff right there.

20 (56m 38s):
Take all of you out, you better move.

0 (56m 41s):
I come back around, better move. Here I come.

20 (56m 45s):
We're not silent. Get out now. Get out on the ground. All of you on the ground now get on the ground. We're not get on the ground, we're not move. So who's,

0 (57m 3s):
Okay, so all these people got arrested as well. They should be And good for the good for the tribal rangers. By the way, did you see that line of cars? Stupid jackass blocking like first of all, Whenever there, this sort of stuff happens. People shutting down traffic and it doesn't matter to the country, doesn't matter the timing. Stop shutting down traffic. It's obnoxious. Not only is it obnoxious 'cause other people have lives, you're not the only person with a life. But also it sometimes creates like a medical hazards because sometimes there's like an ambulance on the way to somewhere. Stupid idiots it. My only regret here is that they didn't do it earlier, but good, good, good for them. Alrighty, we'll do a quick thing that I hate.

0 (57m 44s):
Jen Psaki has been maintaining that no one is in favor of late term abortion, which is weird because you all want late term abortion. I noticed. So she tweeted out on M S N B C, she tweeted out via X, no one supports abortion up until birth. So, which I tweeted, excellent. Please name the legislation you would you would provide in order to prevent abortion up until birth. She did not answer that question because she doesn't have an answer. So here, she was trying to explain herself, Jen Psaki,

21 (58m 9s):
No one supports abortion up until birth. I wrote that because there is a pervasive and misleading talking point that is used by a number of right wing leaders, including presidential candidates on the stage suggesting that Democrats are advocating for and even rooting for late term abortions of babies who could live outside the womb. Just Take a listen to some of the answers in the debate on Wednesday night,

22 (58m 34s):
We're better than what the Democrats are selling. We are not gonna allow abortion all the way up till birth and we will hold them accountable for their extremism.

23 (58m 43s):
We cannot let states like California, New York and Illinois have abortions on demand up until the day of birth.

15 (58m 52s):
I would love it's for someone to ask Biden and Kamala Harris, are they for 38 weeks? Are they for 39 weeks? Are they for 40 weeks?

21 (59m 0s):
This wasn't just some throwaway line for applause on the debate stage. This is a talking point. Republican presidential candidates use repeatedly on the trail,

0 (59m 12s):
Okay? Because it's true, nowhere in the segment does she actually rebut the idea that she would support legislation legalizing abortion until birth. Instead just goes with like, well, it doesn't happen all that often. That's not the question. Question. The question is not whether abortion happens all that often close to birth. The question is, should it happen at all? And at what point should it become illegal? And she won't answer those questions and neither will any other Democrat because the Democratic party position is, there shall be no legislation that restricts abortion at any point up until birth. That is the Democratic party position. And yet she just denies it outright. It's an amazing thing. It, it must be fun to have your cake and eat it too, that way where, where you clearly oppose any restrictions on abortion and then when you're called on it, you're like, yeah, but I don't, but I don't like it.

0 (59m 52s):
Well, I don't care whether you personally like it, I care whether you wish to make it illegal or not. We are in the business of public policy, are we not? It's, it's so dishonest. But you know, she used to work for Biden, so there you have it. Alright guys, the rest of the show, ISS continuing right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be getting into the mailbag. If you're not a member, become member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.