0 (0s):
A new CNN poll initiates total panic among Democrats as Joe Biden flatlines against a bevy of Republican candidates. former Trump aide Peter Navarro is convicted of contempt of Congress and the W H O issues. Another Covid warning, I'm Ben Firo. This is The Ben Shapiro Show.

ExpressVPN (19s):
The Bench Shapiro Show is sponsored by Expressive VPN. I talk about them every single show. Why haven't you gotten a VPN yet? Get express at VPN right now at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (27s):
So there is talk now among Democrats are pulling the ripcord on Joe Biden. It's time to Parachute Outta Biden Land. The reason they're freaking out is because there was a poll last week from the Wall Street Journal that was really bad for Joe Biden. It showed that he had approval ratings in the thirties. It showed that he was running dead even with Donald Trump. Now there's a second poll out from CNN showing that Joe Biden is indeed an extremely weak candidate against CNN. As a poll, you would imagine that'd generally be pretty friendly to President Biden. This poll certainly is not. According to CNN, there is no clear leader in a potential rematch between Biden and former President Trump, who is widely ahead in the G O P primary, nearly half of registered voters. 46% say literally any Republican presidential nominee would be a better choice than Biden in 2024. Meanwhile, hypothetical matchups also suggest there would be no clear leader should Biden face one of the other major G O P contenders.

0 (1m 11s):
There's only one notable exception against Governor Nikki Haley of South Carolina former UN Ambassador. He would lose 49 43 according to the CNN poll. All the rest of the Republican candidates are running either dead, even with Biden or within one point of Biden, either up or down. Since Biden announced his reelection bid earlier this year, his approval ratings have remained mired in the low forties, similar to Donald Trump's standing in 2019. Well below Ronald Reagan, Barack Obama, and Bill Clinton at this point ahead of their reelection campaign. The, the fact is that virtually every metric for Americans about Joe Biden is bad. His job approval rating is at 39%. According to CNN. 58% say his policies have made economic conditions in the United States. Worse, that is up eight points since last fall.

0 (1m 51s):
70% of people say that things are going badly in the country. 51% still say the government should be doing more to solve the nation's problems. Which again, for those 51% of Americans who look at our government and see how intrusive our government is and how large it is and how much money we're spending, they think the government ought to do more to solve my problems. Honest to God, just bang, banging your head against a wall repeatedly is not a good strategy for solving problems. On Biden personally, 58% of voters say they have an unfavorable impression of him. Fewer than half of Americans, only 45% say that Biden cares about people like them. That is a terrible number for Captain Empathy over there, only 33% describe him as someone they'd be proud to have as Presidents of the United States, which they really, really low. Number two-thirds of Americans say, nah, not super proud of it.

0 (2m 34s):
Only 28% of Americans say that Joe Biden inspires confidence. Only 26% say that he has stamina and sharpness enough to serve effectively as president. Meaning 74% say he's not. He's not veal and sharp enough to be President. Those declines are not driven by Republicans. They're driven by Democrats and independents as well. 73% of Americans say they're concerned that Biden's age might negatively affect his culture, his current level of physical and mental competence. 76% are worried that he won't be able to serve out another term. 68% say that they're worried about his ability to understand the next generation's concerns. For people younger than 65, that's 72% old people are like, nah, he understands the young people. But you'd imagine that's what they say because you know they're older.

0 (3m 15s):
Most Democratic voters at this point are hoping for an alternative to Biden. 67% of Democrats and Democrat leaning voters say it's either very or extremely likely that Biden will again be the party's nominee. But that same percentage, 67% say the party should nominate somebody other than Joe Biden. That is up from 54% in March. Now, they can't name who that person should be. They're just saying, we are very dissatisfied with Joe Biden. We don't like him very much. Now, there have been serious problems inside the Democratic Party for Joe Biden. Strong majorities of Democratic and democratic leaning voters say that Biden cares about people like them, but that's at 81%. That shouldn't be at 81%. If you're a Democrat, that should be at like 90%, 95%.

0 (3m 55s):
Your support based inside your own party shouldn't be at 80%, 75% job approval among Democrats. That's not very good for a president of your own party. Only 51% of Democrats say that he inspires confidence and only 49% say that he has the stamina and sharpness to serve effectively as president. So a minority of Democrats think that Joe Biden is up to the job. As far as the biggest concern with Biden, 49% say his age, his mental acuity, 7% in health 7% are also top concerns. So if my math is correct, that 63% of the American public or or 63% of Democrats who say that they are deeply worried about basically his, his ability to function another 70, another 7% say they're worried about his ability to handle the job.

0 (4m 39s):
So 70% of Democrats are at least widely concerned about these particular problems. Only 5% say they have no concerns. So those are, those are really, really awful numbers as far as the choices in a 2020 rematch. Registered voters are currently split between Trump and Biden. They've got Trump up 47, 46 over Joe Biden in these, in this poll. Now the, the real decline for Biden there is among minority voters. And this is why I think this poll and a lot of polls like it are kind of a kymera. I think that there are a lot of polls right now that are showing Biden at bad numbers because there are a lot of people who are saying that they're wavering about Joe Biden, but I don't believe that those voters are going to stay on the sidelines or flip to Donald Trump.

0 (5m 21s):
I'll explain what I mean by that in just one second.

Pure Talk (5m 23s):
First is your cell phone in desperate need of replacement. you know the battery is dying like every five seconds. You have to keep it plugged into the wall, which defeats the point of having a cell phone in the first place. Well, it's time to get rid of that old thing. Switch over to Pure Talk and you'll get a new five G Samsung Galaxy from Pure Talk for free. You get a free five G Samsung Galaxy with two day battery life edge to edge display, ultra strong Gorilla Glass when you sign up for Pure Talk unlimited talk text and 15 gig data plan for just 35 bucks a month. Plus it comes to the mobile hotspot. If you're not using Pure Talk, you're simply paying too much money. Get all the data you could ever need for half the price of the big carriers on America's most Dependable five G network. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro, get your free super durable five G Samsung Galaxy when you switch over to Pure Talk. Again, visit Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Make the switch to my cell phone company, Pure Talk, the official wireless partner of The Daily Wire. These days I've been spending an awful lot of time on the phone related to business Pure Talk is making that connection for me. If it's good enough for my business calls, it's good enough for everybody's business calls, go check them out right now. Pure Talk dot com slash appear to get your free super durable five G Samsung Galaxy when you switch on over to Pure Talk. Get great coverage and save money along the way.

0 (6m 25s):
Alrightyy. So back to this CNN poll. So the numbers that are showing Biden at 46%, there's some other numbers baked into that cake that I'm not certain are going to maintain up until the election. So in other words, he's certainly running weak. He's certainly a very, very weak reelect candidate. I think there are a lot of voters out there who are going to quote unquote come home. Here's what I mean. Biden right now sees a majority of support among voters of color at 58%. He's not going to win voters of color at 58%. He's going to win voters of color at 70%. The reason I say that is because if you look at the last election cycle in 2020, he won 92% of the black vote. He lost 38% of the Hispanic vote. So he, he won the Hispanic vote like 59% of the Hispanic vote.

0 (7m 6s):
He won 72% of the Asian vote in the last election cycle. So none of those subgroups are coming in at 58% or below to assume that all of them are gonna come in collectively at 58%, I find that very, very difficult to believe No Democrat has lost more than about 30% of minority vote for probably two generations. So the notion that this is gonna be the time when the numbers just shift dramatically in favor of Donald Trump, I have a hard time believing that that's the case. I think there are a lot of people who are saying, nah, I don't wanna tell Pole Storm to vote for Biden because I don't like him very much. But if forced to the choice, I think there are gonna be a lot of voters who quote unquote come home. Which is again, why I think that counterintuitively, one of the things that is, that is strengthening Biden is Donald Trump's candidacy.

0 (7m 50s):
I mean, it's pretty obvious that that Joe Biden can't turn out voters for himself. Nobody likes Joe Biden or Caress about Joe Biden. Joe Biden literally ran a campaign as a corpse last time. He's gonna do the same time this this time, except he's an older corpse. You're gonna wheel him out. He's gonna go from his face hole and then they're gonna wheel him back down to the basement in Delaware and that's gonna be his entire campaign. He's not gonna debate Trump. He's not gonna do a mono Iman combat with Trump. No nothing. He's going to sit on the sidelines and wait for Donald Trump to be the center of attention. It's gonna be the exact same campaign as last time. Now, do you think that fully 10 to 12% of minority voters are going to shift over from Joe Biden to Donald Trump? I have a very hard time believing those stats.

0 (8m 32s):
He still sees a majority support among college graduates at 56%, 55% among voters younger than 35, 50 3% of women. Donald Trump has majority support in the CNN poll among white Americans. Men 53% voters without a college degree, 53% independent voters are still breaking in Biden's favor, 47 to 38. So does suburban women, 51 to 44. So again, I'm having a hard time seeing the path to victory in those numbers because it seems to me that if independent voters are splitting 47 to 38 and all the Democrats are voting against Trump and all the Republicans are voting for Trump, I, I don't know how Trump is able to pull out a victory under those circumstances. Again, Trump's high watermark is this poll, 47%.

0 (9m 13s):
Could he win an election with 47%? I mean he did in 2016, but it was the tightest run thing ever. I mean, he literally, he lost the popular vote and he was able to win the votes in precisely the right places. Is that history going to repeat itself in this election cycle? Ironically, again, Joe Biden's bad poll numbers are actually helping him in sort of a practical sense. They're elevating Donald Trump in the Republican primary because it's making Trump seem very electable against Biden. So a lot of Republican voters who love Trump on a personal level, they're like, I don't have to choose between winning and voting for the guy I like in the primary look at the polls. That's totally understandable. I get it. It makes sense, right? I mean, like Trump in this poll is actually running the same as Ron. DeSantis DeSantis is is running head to head against Biden at 47 47.

0 (9m 54s):
So basically they have the same numbers. So if you're a a Trump fan, which love the guy and somebody says to you, well, he is not electable, they're gonna look at this poem, they're gonna go, well, I mean, who is, he's running the same as all the other Republicans. He basically runs like default Republicans. So why can't I have my cake? He needed too. I voted for the guy who I love and is entertaining and did good things for me last time around and is a giant middle finger to the left and he can win just as easily as any other Republican. What I'm telling you is I don't think that that's actually true, but I certainly understand the data that's being presented on the other side and that's actually helping Biden. Because if you believe, as I do that Joe Biden's large advantage in voter turnout comes solely as a result of people hating Donald Trump. Well, that's good for Biden. The other thing that's good for Biden about these bad poll numbers is that one of the things that really hurt Hillary in 2016 against Trump the first time, one of the things that really hurt her was an assumption by literally everyone that she was gonna walk away with the election.

0 (10m 43s):
That was the baseline assumption of virtually everyone. You'll remember the the famous New York Times needle that showed at the beginning of the night, a 99% probability that Hillary Clinton was gonna be president. And by the end of the night, of course, Donald Trump was president. You remember this? So, because everyone thought Hillary was going to win, no one showed up to vote for her. All these voters in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Michigan, all these voters were like, Hillary's gonna win anyway. And it's, it's cold outside and I don't like her that much. I'm just gonna stay home. And so Donald Trump was able to sneak by my favorite staff from the 2016 election that that proves this out. Is that in Wisconsin, which Donald Trump won by a fairly decent margin in Wisconsin. Donald Trump in 2016 won fewer absolute votes than Mitt Romney did in 2012.

0 (11m 24s):
But Mitt Romney lost the state because Barack Obama got the vote out for his side, and Hillary Clinton lost the state in which sh in, in which she was running against a person who got fewer votes than Mitt Romney did in Wisconsin, right? It, the, the 2016 was election was a reflection of two things. People didn't like Hillary Clinton, and they thought for sure she was gonna win. Well, the first is still true here. People don't like Joe Biden, but they are certainly not sure that he's going to win. and that means that if you are uncertain and it's like get your ass outta the chair on voter voter day and you know, like go do the thing, the voter turnout is not gonna be as low as it was. It's not gonna be as high as it was last time because last time was insane with all the mail-in balloting and all of the hubbub and the b l m riots and, and the covid and everything, but it's not gonna be as low as it was in 2016 in a lot of these places either from Democrats.

0 (12m 11s):
Okay, so what is this? What this, this is giving reason for Democrats to panic, by the way, I should, I should give you the actual stats here with regard to how, how Biden runs against various other Republicans. So Trump is, is running as we say, 47 46 over Biden in this poll, which is margin of error. Effectively their time there are 40, he's a 47% to 47% against Ron DeSantis, he's down two to Mike Pence, 46 to 44, he's down two to Tim Scott, 46 to 44, he's up one against Vivek Ramez Wami 46 to 45. And he's actually down two to Chris Christie, 44 to 42. Christie over Biden Nikki Haley's the only with a clear lead. She has a 49 to 43 lead and a hypothetical matchup between the two.

0 (12m 54s):
According to CNN, that difference is driven at least in part by broader support for Haley than for other Republicans among white voters with college degrees, which, which makes some sense, right? All these other candidates are running for the exact same crowd that Trump got. Nikki Haley does have some sort of white collar appeal that many of these other candidates do not. The Democratic coalition is white college educated voters and minorities. That is, that is their coalition. And the Republican coalition is white non-college educated voters and a bevy of sort of partial, partial allegiance from various minority groups that is higher than it has been under prior Republican candidates. So if, if you can carve away some of the white college educated group or some of the women or some of the independent voters, Republicans have a good shot at victory.

0 (13m 38s):
Right now Republicans are saying they're more deeply driven to vote in 2024. 71% say they're extremely motivated democratic line voters. 61% say they're extremely motivated. And this is again, why I think that this poll is kinda a kymera. I don't think that gap is going to exist on election day. I think when we get to election day after months and months and months of Donald Trump is on trial. Donald Trump is a Fascist Donald Trump is going to destroy the world. Democratic voter turnout in 2018, in 2020, in 2021, in 2022 has been very, very good. Democratic voter turnout has not lagged in any election since Donald Trump has been on the ballot or in a shadow way been on the ballot. So do I think that a lot of Democratic voters are just going to get bored and stay home? I I have serious doubts, but again, these polls counterintuitively may be actually helping Biden on a practical level.

0 (14m 24s):
Democrats, however are panicked and we'll get to that Democratic panic in just one moment.

Helix (14m 27s):
First, I've been on the road, obviously that means not as much sleep as I need now I'm home tonight. I cannot wait to get on my Helix sleep mattress and go to sleep for hours and hours and hours. It is the thing I most need in life. My Helix sleep mattress makes my life possible. Head on over to Helix right now. They have a brand new high-end collection called Helix Elite. Helix has harness years of extensive mattress expertise to bring their customers a truly elevated sleep experience. The Helix Elite Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for specific sleep positions and firmness preferences. I've had my Helix sleep mattress for seven, eight years at this point. It is great. It, it was made just for me. It's personalized for me. It is firm but breathable, which is what I need to tend to heat up at night. And if the mattress is too soft to get back pain Helix made a mattress that works just for me. There's sleep quiz matches your body, type in sleep preferences to the perfect mattress. 'cause why would you buy a mattress made for somebody else? I took that helix quiz, I was matched with that from a breathable mattress. You should do the same head on over to the Helix Labor Day Sale. It's still going on. They're offering 25% off all mattress orders, two free pillows for my listeners. Go to helix sleep dot com slash Ben, use code Helix partner 25. It's their best offer, yet it's not going to last long with Helix. Better sleep starts right now.

0 (15m 32s):
Okay, so Democrats, look at this poll and they're freaking out. You can see the members of the media who are basically begging the Democratic party. Please run somebody else. Now, again, bizarrely, we now have agreement between the two parties on one fundamental principle. There's no way it can lose to that guy. That's the fundamental principle. Republicans are like, no way we lose to this doddering old geriatric moron. No way we lose to this corrupt crat. No way. And Democrats are looking at Donald Trump like no way. We lose to a guy who's under four separate incitements before the election and a guy who participated in the events from the last election to the, to January 6th, and a guy who can't, whose, whose main campaign activity involves going on true social and saying stuff and raising money for his legal fund. No way we could lose to that. So you have both parties in agreement meme style like the, the predator meme of the gripping fists saying, no way we lose to that guy.

0 (16m 19s):
The problem is one side is going to be wrong, right? Someone is going to lose the election, someone's gonna have to lose the election. You would assume, or maybe this is sar no exit and we'll just keep running the same election over and over and over. Democrats are, are actually panicking first, which is interesting. And again, I think indicative of the fact that when we say the Democratic voter turnout is gonna be lower, I I am not so sure because if they are panicking, that means they actually want to win the election. So here's Aaron Burnett with Katie Porter, the representative with a whiteboard, and she, she says, should Biden be replaced on the ballot with this kind of brutal polling?

3 (16m 52s):
Does the Democratic Party need to start seriously looking at someone else?

4 (16m 58s):
President Biden has done a terrific job on the economy, and I think this is a matter of just people wanting to, to sort of dream up what they could imagine for different kinds of candidates at this point. But the truth is, Joe Biden has a terrific story to tell on the economy. But

3 (17m 15s):
Do you really think ultimately, congresswoman, that if people just saw the economy differently, they wouldn't care about all these other issues that they, they seem to have strong opinions on the stamina, the age, whether they're proud to have him as president. All of those, you know, frankly, pretty damning numbers.

4 (17m 34s):
Well, as somebody who's run three tough races, I have read a lot of polls in my day and there's always cross signals and I think that's some of what you see here. I think at the end of the day you look at the Biden ability to win independent voters, particularly over Trump. You, I think this is shaping up with some of the exact same demographics going to support President Biden as did last time. And I think you hear, if anything even stronger concerns about President Trump.

0 (18m 3s):
So, I mean, again, you you see here, just going to Trump. That is for only defense and as you'll see, that's the defense mechanism for Biden always in forever is going to be Trump. So Jake Tapper was asking similar questions to Joe Biden's campaign co-chair Cedric Richmond saying essentially like, these are really bad poll numbers, whatcha gonna do about it?

5 (18m 20s):
Do you not acknowledge that the perception of his frailty perceived frailty is hurting his campaign, is hurting his reelection chances

6 (18m 32s):
Now about the president's age, you're going to, voters will see his vigor, voters will see his accomplishments. If you just look at his schedule, he is traveling around the world over the next four and a half days to continue to show American leadership on the world stage. So when they compare President Biden's travel to that of Republicans, even Republicans that are running for president, he's traveling almost 30% more than they are.

0 (18m 58s):
Wow. He's, so, their defense is that Joe Biden goes in cars sometimes and on planes, again, pretty weak to Elizabeth Warren was also out trying to defend Joe Biden. You, you can see how weak the defenses are and as we'll see, the real defense is that we hate Donald Trump as always, that it's the only defense the Democrats have for Joe Biden's presidency.

7 (19m 16s):
Why do you think they're having such a hard time getting their message through on the economy? Why do you think so many Democrats your party would like to see someone else be their standard bearer next year?

8 (19m 27s):
You know, look, I, I can't do polls. I'm not good at this, but I can tell you this Presidents doing a great job. You can't, and how do I know that? I just look at what he has delivered. I look at $35 insulin. Wow. And we're soon to hit a $2,000 cap on what seniors pay for out-of-pocket medical care. I look at junk fees and the number of people who are just not gonna get bled for $35 here and $50 over there. I look at the fact that he's passed the biggest climate package in the history of the world

0 (20m 1s):
And everybody is like, wait, I'm supposed to vote for that guy. 'cause he spent money on windmills really in, in the inflationary cycle and, and I'm paying a lot of money for gas every time I go to fill up. And you're, you're telling me he spent a lot of money on windmills. Like that's, that, that is your case. I, I like when Elizabeth Warren, who was a Harvard law professor, like, I don't know what polls are, what is a poll? How do I read them? I know Elizabeth Warren. I've met Elizabeth Warren. In fact, she was one of the people who, who was a recruiter at, at the Harvard Law Party I went to when they were, when they were doing recruitment in Los Angeles. And Elizabeth Warren is smart enough to read a poll. This, this, this is absolute nonsense. But again, the final Democratic pitch is gonna have nothing to do with Joe Biden. It's gonna have to be entirely to do with Donald Trump.

0 (20m 42s):
Which is why, if that's their plan, if their plan is we run against Donald Trump, then the poor polling for Biden actually creates kind of a bizarre sweet spot in the eye of this hurricane for him. We'll get to that momentarily. It's very weird.

Boll & Branch (20m 55s):
First, have you ever invested in like a nice jack shoes, maybe a nice dinner? Well, your betting shouldn't be any different. I mean, you wear that suit like, I don't know, once a week. You wear those shoes maybe every day, but you're not in the shoes like the nice shoes that you spent a lot of money on. You're not in them like eight hours a night every single night. Start investing in your best sleep with Bo and Branch. They make the only sheets that get softer with every single wash. Bo and Branch sheets are made from the finest 100% organic cotton threads on the planet. They feel buttery to the touch. They're super breathable. They're perfect for both cooler and warmer months. They're signature hemp sheets were made with luxurious threads. They're made without pesticides from aldehyde or other harsh chemicals. Best of all, Boland Branch gives you a 30 night risk-free trial with free shipping and returns on all orders. You're not gonna wanna return them. How good are Boland Branch products? Okay, so Boland Branch makes this Afghan blanket. It is so good that I literally travel with it when I'm on the road. I put it in my suitcase and I travel with it because it is so comfortable. And basically I, I use it to sleep better when I'm on the road. It's that, it's that good sleep better at night with bull and Branch sheets. Get 15% off your first order when you use promo Coach Shapiro at bull and Branch dot com. That's b o l l and Branch, B O L L A N D Branch dot com promo coach Shapiro exclusions apply C site for details.

0 (22m 0s):
Okay? So again, the Democrats case, it's always and forever gonna come down to we hate Donald Trump, that's all it is. And Kamala Harris makes this clear, right? And she, she was asked this question yesterday, what, what makes you think they're gonna win this election? And she's like, well, democracy is at stake. Now those of us who live in the rational world are deeply annoyed by this kind of language. The the reason I say this is because democracy is always at stake. I mean, when, when we talk about what Democrats have done using executive orders, for example, to cause OSHA to try to force 80 million Americans to take a vaccine that they don't wanna take. Or when Joe Biden decides to relieve student loans simply with the wave of his pen, or when members of the Democratic party try to undermine the credibility of the Supreme Court, or when they refuse to acknowledge elections in Georgia, for example, like Stacey Abrams.

0 (22m 50s):
When all that happens, that apparently is just good solid governance. When Republicans do any of the above, then that of course is, is a threat to democracy. But the reality is that our democratic institutions are pretty durable and they've proved themselves pretty durable. This is why the, this sort of language annoys me. I I talked about it yesterday on the show. When people say this is the last election, they're lying to you. you know how I know they're lying to you? Because they're not out in the woods training with a militia right now. That's how I know you know what people do. If they think a war is coming, they start preparing for a war. you know what they don't do? Sit by their computers in an air conditioned office and tweet about it. That's typically not what they do. But again, this is the campaign strategy. The campaign strategy is gonna be Joe Biden in front of a blood red Independence Hall talking about how Fascism is, is about to break like a wave upon the country.

0 (23m 34s):
If Donald Trump were to be reelected to the presidency, this is their entire campaign. Here is Kamala Harris making that bizarre case.

9 (23m 40s):
You were dismissive of some of the Republican criticism of you and the president. When you look at current polling, the front runner for a Republican nomination is the former president, the 45th president.

10 (23m 56s):
We'll win the election, you'll win, we'll win, we will win reelection. There's too much at stake. And the American people know it.

0 (24m 4s):
There's too much at stake. His code for if my opponent wins Fascism will reign and maybe Americans buy it. But if they do, the only reason they buy it is because the media are liars on a routine basis. And also because we are gonna spend the next year talking about Donald Trump and January 6th. And if this is entire election, it's about Donald Trump and January 6th and not about Joe Biden's crappy policies that does give that Democrats a leg up. If you're an independent voter and all you hear day in and day out from the media is threat to democracy. Donald trump's in court today because he, the threat to democracy Donald trump's in court today because of the threat to democracy January 6th, threat to democracy. If that's all you hear from now till election day, and if Donald Trump is on truth social tweeting about that stuff all day, well, I mean, that's not going to be a good pathway to election. What would be a good pathway to election for any Republican worth assault is Joe Biden is a terrible president.

0 (24m 46s):
He's really bad at the job. Because you know what? The vast majority of Americans agree with that. And by the way, Joe Biden is getting worse. According to the Los Angeles Times, the Biden administration is now considering forcing some migrant families who enter the country without authorization to remain near the border in Texas while awaiting asylum screening, effectively limiting their ability to travel within the United States administration officials have been considering that idea as a way to stem recent increases in the number of migrant families crossing the southern border, which reportedly reached an all-time high last month. They're calling it the Remain in Texas plan, which is it's clearly motivated by an attempt to stop all these people from going to New York and Chicago and Blue Enclaves where all the mayors are getting increasingly pissed off.

0 (25m 27s):
So it. I love this. So basically Joe Biden has an open border policy that is being green-lit by federal judges, by the way, because Texas tried to build a barrier in the middle of the Rio Grande to prevent illegal migrants from crossing the border. And the US judge ordered Texas to move those buoys from the middle of the Rio Grande. This is to an embankment on the Texas side of the river, which of course makes it a lot easier for people to illegally enter the country. So the Biden administration is facilitating the entry of people into the country illegally. And then they're saying, and by the way, you have to keep 'em in Texas, they can't go to any blue areas. We you have to keep them right there in Texas. You have to suffer. I mean, this is just, you wanna talk about malicious governance, malicious and nasty governance.

0 (26m 9s):
That would be the peak of it. And by the way, it's clearly a response to Democrats who are becoming increasingly agitated about the fact that they're perfectly happy with open borders so long as they don't have to pay the cost of it. Just like everybody, all these rich white Democrats who are in favor of defund the police because they live in protected areas of the United States, live in gated communities and in favor of defund the police. It's just like that. All these people in blue cities and they're like, I love open borders. This is a sanctuary city. Please don't come here. We don't wanna give you sanctuary. Please don't come here. My favorite side by side of the day yesterday. So Eric Adams is a flashback 2021 Eric Adams talking about the magic of illegal migrants.

11 (26m 47s):
When you think about it, the days I spent with our essential employees, a substantial number of them were undocumented. They were delivering our Uber Eats, they were stocking our stores. They were out in the streets keeping our city running. We have to expand N Y C care to make sure everyone has healthcare. We need to make sure we have proper translation services in our schools.

0 (27m 13s):
They keep our, our city running, says Eric Adams circa 2021. Fast forward two years, here's Eric Adams yesterday.

11 (27m 20s):
We are getting no support on this national crisis and we are receiving no support. And let me tell you something, new Yorkers never in my life have I had a problem that I did not see an ending to. I don't see an ending to this. I don't see an ending to this. This issue will destroy New York City

0 (27m 49s):
Guys. That's that. Wow, this, this issue will de, the migrant crisis will destroy. I thought that this was a amazing place for my nothing more fun than watching Left-wing policies actually have their predictable consequences and then watching the same people who advocated for those policies realize how bad those policies actually were. Now meanwhile, the economy continues to slow. I know that they're telling you that's not the case. Again, if you operate in the business sphere, you already know this. Every stat that's coming right now is a stat that's rooted in consumer spending. Consumer spending is not what drives economic growth. What drives economic growth is people producing new products, new innovations, things that are cheaper and easier, things that are better and more efficient. you know, when that happens, when businesses invest, you know what businesses are not doing right now because they're scared where the economy is going, investing money is tightening up.

0 (28m 33s):
It's not as loose. People are being a lot more meticulous about where they put their money. And by the way, that's going to have downstream effects. Walmart, according to the Wall Street, Journal is now paying some new store workers less than it would have even three months ago. A sign that employers are seeking to cut labor costs as the ones hot market for hourly staff. Cools, the country's largest private employer changed its wage structure for hourly workers in mid-July, according to documents reviewed by the Wall Street, Journal and Walmart employees. Under the new structure, most new hires will earn the lowest possible hourly wage for that store. In the past, some new hires such as those who collect items for online orders would've made slightly more than the other new staff members such as cashiers. The wage structure change came after Walmart and other large employers have for years steadily raised wages and added benefits to attract workers in a tight labor market.

0 (29m 14s):
So the market is starting to flatten out. People are not gonna pay as much, but those prices are still inflated, which means that the prices are gonna start gonna have, they're gonna have to come down. When that happens, people are gonna start losing jobs. The the gravity still applies here. Meanwhile, health insurance costs are taking the biggest jumps in years. According to the Wall Street. Journal health insurance costs are climbing at the steepest rate in years with some projecting the biggest increase in more than a decade will wall up businesses and their workers in 2024 costs for employer coverage are expected to surge around 6.5% for 2024. These are bad economic numbers and they're because of Joe Biden and his inflationary policies. So what would you rather run an election on that stuff?

0 (29m 54s):
Or would you rather run an election on whether Donald Trump is mean and nasty, or whether he's the greatest Patriot Patriot who ever lived? The more you're talking about Trump, the less you're talking about Biden. It is a simple it, it is a simple matter of mutually exclusive time use. You can't talk about both Trump and Biden. There ain't the time in a campaign either people are focused on one candidate or they're focused on the other candidate, which again, brings up the fact that the legal troubles unfair as they are. The Democrats are now laing on top of Donald Trump. They're designed to have an effect and they will have an effect Just because they're bad, just 'cause they're unfair, does not mean they will not have an effect. They absolutely will have an effect because people are talking about this stuff as they will. Then you know what, they're not talking about Joe Biden being awful at his job.

0 (30m 35s):
So to take an incredibly dumb example now, Peter Navarro, who is a former White House official, he was found guilty of contempt of Congress charges for refusing to cooperate with a congressional investigation into the January 6th, 2021 attack on the US Capitol. There was a short trial for Navarro. He was the second Trump aid to face contempt of Congress charges. After Steve Bannon Banon was convicted on two counts and was sentenced to four months behind bars. He has been free pending appeal. Navarro has vowed to appeal the verdict. US District Judge Amit Meta found that Navarro didn't have enough evidence to show that Trump had invoked executive privilege. That was the claim that Eric Holder made. Eric Holder you'll remember was the attorney general for Barack Obama. He also was found in contempt of Congress for not showing up in testifying in front of Congress. He was not actually formally charged because he claimed executive privilege and Barack Obama backed him.

0 (31m 19s):
Trump has not really made a statement about whether Navarro was utilizing executive privilege and the evidence isn't there. So the judge is like, well, if it's not executive privilege, then you have to show up and testify. But here was Peter Navarro explaining.

12 (31m 34s):
I said from the beginning, this is going to the Supreme Court. I said from the beginning, I am willing to go to prison to settle this issue. I'm willing to do that. But I also know that the likelihood of me going to prison is relatively small because we are right on this issue.

0 (31m 56s):
Okay, well, he, I I think he actually is right on this issue, meaning that he has a couple of defenses. One is executive privilege because he was working for Trump and therefore whatever he said to Trump was not, he's not compelled to talk about that in front of Congress. Executive privilege applies. And, and two, even if he thought executive privilege applied, it may be enough because you have to show beyond a reasonable doubt that it wasn't accident inadvertence or mistake, that he didn't show up for the, for the hearing in Congress. Not like he, you know, wrote the wrong date on his calendar, but like he thought he actually had a rational reason for not showing up and that he thought executive privilege had been invoked. But is that the story that anybody's gonna be telling today? I think talk about the legal in and outs. First of all, if you are, it's already too late. If you're explaining, you're losing beyond that, the actual story that people are gonna be covering is that chaos broke out at the press conference.

0 (32m 38s):
So we're gonna just do this. Here's some of the chaos at the press conference

12 (32m 42s):
With one of the most important constitutional separation of powers issues. And people will not let me speak. This

13 (32m 51s):
Is my first amendment right? This

12 (32m 52s):
Is what I'm gonna do now is allow, there's

13 (32m 56s):
Cameras here, but Marshalls just saw you. Marshalls just saw you. You're in trouble. You're in trouble. You just assaulted me. That man just assaulted me. He stuck a flagpole in between my

12 (33m 6s):
Legs. Yeah, yeah. Don't touch your me,

13 (33m 7s):
Don't touch me.

0 (33m 13s):
Good times all. Now

12 (33m 14s):
They're calling

13 (33m 15s):
Services. I was just assaulted you. No did

0 (33m 19s):
This. This is all great. This is just, this is all gonna go extraordinarily well in just a second. We'll get to the legal peril facing in Donald Trump. He is now saying that he'll testify his own trial. His lawyer is going to in the background. No, we'll get to that momentarily

Balance Of Nature (33m 30s):
first. Very hard to live a healthy lifestyle these days. There's a lot of unhealthy food out there. There's some of us, like me, I don't like vegetables. I think they're evil. But I still need the nutrition to be gotten from things like vegetables. One of God's blights on humanity. This is why I rely on balance of nature, fruits and veggies. They're a great way to make sure that you're getting essential nutritional ingredients every single day. Through balance of nature's advanced cold vacuum process, the vitamins, minerals, and phytonutrients of the fruits and veggies are preserved. So you can get that vital nutrition in each capsule. Balance of nature is a whole food supplement with no additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticides, or added sugar. The only thing in their capsules is Pure fruits and veggies. Balance of Nature. Sent a bunch of their product down to the studio for my team to try. We all love them. We've been using them. It's making my team healthier, making 'em feel better. I was really excited to find out the product certified kosher. So I myself can attest to the product. It is an excellent product. Go to balance of nature.com. Use promo code Shapiro for 35% off your very first order as a preferred customer. That's balance of nature.com. Promo code Shapiro. Get 35% off your first preferred order. Again, you need nutrition weaponized basically, so that you can make sure that you're healthy. It's hard to get all those fruits and veggies and balance of nature. Helps you to go to balance of nature.com. Prom Coach Shapiro, 35% off your first preferred order.

Convicting A Murderer (34m 38s):
Also, we're now hours away from the X event of Candace Owens's New 10 parts. Aeries Convicting Murder. If you haven't heard, we're showcasing Episode one, two Nights on X, that's formerly known as Twitter at 9:00 PM Eastern. you know Stephen Avery's murder trial because everybody does, because it was made famous by Hollywood Netflix made an entire series about it, hugely watched a series. While Candace Owens blows their narrative wide open, their narrative is that Stephen Avery was an innocent victim of law enforcement. That is not what convicting a murderer says. Here's a sneak peek at the trailer coming Up on convicting a murderer. Part of me don't wanna believe that he did this. The blood that was under that back area was indicative of the head wound. My brother likes to push a lot of people around. I don't Give a fuck about anything. I ain't gotta listen to nobody. How were these filmmakers able to convince so many people and the man likes Steven Avery's innocent? How many times did he stab her Once And show me where? Right here They gave him power. They're trying to get everything on me that they did. It's not good for an Avery to have power. I told you all along, keep your fucking belt shot. That can hurt Steven. I'm not in the lie for him no more. I can't do it. Watch Convicting a Murderer. A new 10 part series on DailyWire Plus

Daily Wire (35m 51s):
Before the X showcase of convicting a murderer, Candace will be chatting with special guests at a special X event at 5:00 PM Make sure you head on over to the X space to join that conversation. Episodes one and two are free to watch. Episode three is only available for DailyWire plus members. Head on over to DailyWire plus.com/subscribe. Sign up today.

0 (36m 7s):
Okay, meanwhile, president Trump is preparing for his legal travails. He suggested the other day that the classified documents trial, he's actually gonna testify in his own trial, which would be the worst legal strategy, almost literally ever. It would be that is a terrible, terrible political strategy. Here's President Trump talking about how absolutely he's gonna take the stand. Spoiler alert, he's not gonna take the stand.

24 (36m 29s):
So

23 (36m 29s):
If you have to go to trial, will you testify in your own defense?

25 (36m 34s):
Oh yes, absolutely. You'll

23 (36m 36s):
Take the stand testify

24 (36m 37s):
That I would, that I look forward to, because that's just like Russia, Russia, Russia. That's all the fake information from Russia, Russia, Russia. Remember when the dossier came out and everyone said, oh, that's so terrible. That's so terrible. And then it turned out to be, it was a political report put out by Hillary Clinton and the D N C.

0 (36m 55s):
I don't know if that has to do with anything, actually, but that is, that is a very bad political strategy. But here's the thing. Let's say he does. Let's say he takes the stand. What do you think the news cycle is gonna be about that week, that month, that year? What do you think it's going to be about? Meanwhile, that classified documents case I continue to maintain is the strongest legal case against President Trump because he did the criming on tape, which is always first rule of Criming. Don't do it on tape. According to CNN Mar-a-Lago it worker, Yuko Vera has now struck a cooperation agreement with the special counsel's office. In that federal case, Vera struck the case with prosecutors after being threatened with prosecution. He is the person referred to in the filing and superseding indictment is Trump employee number four. He's agreed to testify in the classified documents case in exchange, he will not be prosecuted. He has not been charged with any crime at this point.

0 (37m 38s):
The filing marks the first public acknowledgement that special counsel Jack Smith has won the cooperation of key witnesses as part of the prosecution of Trump, longtime valet Walt Mata and Mar-a-Lago property manager, Carlos, to Oliviera. Prosecutors have argued that Woodward, who now represents nta, could face conflicts of interest if he's representing Trump and also facing Walt nta. So, you know, again, this is going to be the, the story of the campaign. Unless Donald Trump is a very meticulous campaigner and that has not been his history in the past. Meanwhile, Donald Trump is sounding off on who he would most likely debate. The answer is Meghan Markle.

23 (38m 10s):
The reason I bring up 90 million people watch that. 90 million people. And the only thing I think that might draw an audience that even approaches that would be if you were to sit down with the Duchess of Sussex, Meghan Markle and Prince Harry. They don't like you much. Would you do that for the ratings?

25 (38m 28s):
I didn't like the way she dealt with the Queen. I became very friendly with the Queen. She was an incredible woman at 95. She was so sharp. Now I, I think it's, it's not a good situation going on with the two of them, but I did know that they don't like me. Somebody mentioned it might be possible they wouldn't be the only ones, but I mean,

0 (38m 46s):
That would get ratings,

25 (38m 48s):
Wouldn't it? Oh, if you wanna set it up, let's set it up. Let's, let's go do something. I'll, I'll, I'd love to debate here. I would love it.

0 (38m 57s):
Here's the thing. Donald Trump is so much more entertaining than every other person in the race. That is his draw. It is also, it's his, it's his blessing, his curse Spider-man. He like the, the fact that Donald Trump is so much more magnetic, so much more charismatic, so much more interesting than every other person in the race means you're gonna be talking about him. If you're talking about him, you're thinking about him. If you're thinking about him and talking about him, you know, you're not thinking or talking about the dead guy in the corner who's the president. That's, that is in, that is in a nutshell, the problem in this election cycle. Okay, meanwhile, the W H O is now sounding yet another major alarm over Covid. Woo-hoo. Here we go. Get ready. According to the Express, world Health Organization has warned of concerning trends for Covid to 19 ahead of winter as a dangerous new strain runs rampant across the northern hemisphere.

0 (39m 42s):
Here was the W H O Chief Teros at Hanes explaining that it's time to get prepared for lockdowns again,

26 (39m 50s):
The increase in hospitalizations. And this shows that Covid is here to stay and that we will continue to need tools to fight it.

0 (40m 2s):
Okay, great. Well, meanwhile, there are a lot of schools presumably led by all the teachers unions that are trying to mask up. Again, according to the Express, schools across America are reinstating mask mandates for kids. In response to the surgeon cases, again, I will remind you that Covid, as a general rule, the original strain, which killed like a ton of people who are 70 years old, killed almost no one in the youngest age group. Kinser Burch Junior High in Alabama, has asked all students, staff and visitors to start wearing face masks in classrooms. Despite the absolute failure, according to all data of mask mandates, to actually effectuate a, a reduction in spread of disease. Alabama's Talladega city school district, which is home more than 1,700 students, has also urged children and staff to wear masks. They said they're encouraged but not required.

0 (40m 44s):
Maryland Elementary School became embroiled in a controversy this week after they said that students must dawn N 95 masks for 10 days, despite just a smattering of cases. New York health officials are ramping up their messaging around masks as well. So we're gonna do mask wars again, which is just delightful. Meanwhile, Corin Shaere, she was asked about the C d C and apparently they're going to ignore their own masking advice, which is exciting stuff.

27 (41m 8s):
We are in a different place than we were two, three years ago. Do, do you know, but let me, c d c does

28 (41m 14s):
Not seem to be responding to the data.

27 (41m 19s):
I'll say this. And you're talking about schools? Yeah, c d C, they're the experts. They're, they use science to come to, to come forward with their guidelines. And it is important that we allow them to do their work.

0 (41m 34s):
Oh. So yeah. Great. So I, I guess we'll be talking about mask mandates in schools. Again, literally the least useful intervention of pretty much all time. We're gonna do that again in the name of TE Science. Now, wouldn't that be a good thing for the Republicans to talk about? Wouldn't that be a good thing for them to run against? It might be. Are they gonna do that? I mean, meanwhile, controversy continues to swirl around this insane gambit by the Democratic party to basically gut the American military so that we can pay for abortion. So their basic idea is that you must allow the American military to pay for people to travel to other states for abortions, or we just won't even put up for a vote. Leaders of the military, and then we'll blame Republicans for not green lighting. That that's the goal.

0 (42m 15s):
They created a crap sandwich. The crap sandwich is all of our military appointments plus abortion. And Republicans are like, how about this? You put those guys up individually and we'll say yes to them individually and we'll not say yes to the abortion stuff. And Democrats are like, why are you gutting the American military? So Tommy Tuberville, the senator from Alabama, he, he's pointing out how ridiculous this is. He, he says on Twitter, Senator Schumer could put these nominations on the floor whenever he wants to. Which of course is exactly right. It's not stopping Democrats from lying about it. Elizabeth Warren, who, I mean, let's be real. Like when we talk about people who are deeply concerned about America's military readiness, Elizabeth Warren doesn't list in the top a hundred. Here's Elizabeth Warren explaining that Tommy Tuberville is undermining American national security.

29 (42m 55s):
I'm sure you speak to some of your Republican counterparts in the Senate. You're friends with some of them. How can they allow this guy to continue with this? What's going on?

8 (43m 3s):
Alright, so let's start with the first part. and that is what Senator Tuberville is doing is undermining our national security. This is what the Secretary of Defense says. This is what all of the defense experts say. And this is, in fact, I'm sure you've heard the story about the Chinese diplomat who recently was laughing and making fun at his American counterpart because we can't even get our military promotions in line.

0 (43m 33s):
Yeah. They care so deeply about the military promotions. Well, no, what they care about is making you pay for other people's abortions. That's what they really care about in violation of basically common sense rules that the Senate has abided by for decades. Right. That federal funding should not go toward abortion. It doesn't mean the federal government hasn't funded Planned Parenthood. They have, but then we're not supposed to directly pay for abortions. That's what we are now doing. Meanwhile, the rest of the Republican candidates are still out there. Right? We're talking a lot about Trump because Trump is far and away the leader, front runner in the field. What the polls are showing right now is some movement on behalf of Nikki Haley in particular states, particularly in Iowa. You're seeing some movement for Nikki Haley nationally. Trump is still far and away the leader. He's, he's ahead by 34 points in the latest CNN poll.

0 (44m 13s):
That same poll is showing that Biden is very weak. He's showing Trump at 52, DeSantis at 18, nobody else in double digits. So for all the incoming that DeSantis has taken, he's still the number two candidate in this race by a fairly long shot. Even in Iowa, the latest polls are still showing that DeSantis is far and away. Number two, it's got Trump at 42 and DeSantis in 19. That is according to the latest N B C news Des Moines Register poll in New Hampshire. It's basically Trump and then a scrum. The latest Emerson poll has Trump at 49 and then it has DeSantis at eight. Christie at nine, Scott at six. Ramis Swami at three. You got a Tre Algar group poll, which, you know, gotta take with a grain of salt with Trump at 50, DeSantis at 11, Christie at nine, Scott at eight. Ramos Swami at 10.

0 (44m 53s):
So just a bunch of people who are, who are sort of congregated there. DeSantis still remains the most durable second place candidate despite all the incoming that he's been taking. And despite the fact he hasn't really had a lot of kind of bright shining moments in this campaign so far. Yesterday some moron in the crowd suggested that he was responsible for a, a mass killing of black people in Jacksonville, and, and this is where DeSantis really is the best, DeSantis really is quite good at fighting back against a smear. So here's what it sounded like.

30 (45m 24s):
Weapons, an immature

0 (45m 27s):
Person saying You have allowed weapons to fill the street into immature, hateful people and have caused the deaths of the people who were murdered a couple weeks ago,

30 (45m 35s):
Martin, first.

31 (45m 35s):
So first of all, I did not allow anything with that. Well, listen, excuse me, I'm not gonna let you accuse me of committing criminal activity. I am not gonna take that. I'm not gonna take that. So you, you should, you wanna have a civil conversation? That's one thing. Try to say that. I'm letting that guy was Baker acted. He should have been, he should have been ruled ineligible, but they didn't involuntarily commit him, and so they weren't, please No, no, I don't, no, no. There is the truth. There is something about the truth. It's not everyone doesn't have their own truth. No. You don't get to come here and, and, and blame me for some mad man that is not appropriate and I'm not going to accept it.

0 (46m 23s):
Okay? So it's that, that is what DeSantis is good at. More of this, more of this. DeSantis would probably help him in the race. Okay. Ty him for some things I like, and then some things that I hate. So things that I like today, Joe Rogan, of course, has been good on this issue for a while now because Joe Rogan operates in a very masculine world where men fight each other in a cage. And he was talking with Bill Maher recently about so-called gender affirming care, and he went directly after it.

33 (46m 47s):
It's terrifying that they're, that they're calling it gender affirming care. When it's really childhood mutilation before you have the ability to figure out what permanent means. You're seven years old, you can't get your face tattooed. No, you, you can't go to war, you can't get married. There's reasons for all that stuff. You're too young. And this idea that you should be able to make life-changing choices like hormone blockers, right? Which are a not reversible no matter what the fuck they say, they say it's reversible. No, the changes happen to your body during puberty, and if you stop those changes, that change is no, you can't reverse that. You're gonna have a micro penis. You're, you're, you're taking estrogen while your body's developing.

33 (47m 29s):
You're blocking your testosterone. If you're doing all that stuff, it's going to have an effect on your body. Now, if you're happy with that effect and you don't care, okay, but how many people aren't and how many people are young and how many detransition are there who have horrible stories and, and, and you're a monster in a bigot if you even bring that up.

0 (47m 47s):
He's right. Obviously the fact that one of the great ironies about this whole debate, and Bill Maher obviously is on the right side of this debate too, is that four years ago, Dennis Prager was on Bill Maher's show, and you'll recall Dennis Prager literally said that there are people who say that Men Menstruate and Bill Maher and his entire guest panel laughed at Dennis. That was four years ago. And now Bill Maher and Joe Rogan are having to say the same thing that Dennis was saying. you know, it, it is amazing how fast the, the culture changes and moves in time with what the radical left wants. Okay. Time for a couple of things that I hate. So, Hillary Clinton has a new job. This is exciting. She apparently is teaching a course at Columbia University, which makes perfect sense since she was a terrible Secretary of State, a failed presidential candidate, and ran a scam foundation.

0 (48m 38s):
So that, that makes, that makes perfect sense. Again, the, the places where retired Democrats go to pastor, they, they go to pastor in academia and on M S N bbc, that's, so, that's where they go. According to the New York Times, it was 20 minutes into the first class of the semester when a professor of foreign policy at Columbia University halted the lecture. I see the phones and I see the camera. She said, this is not a Taylor Swift concert. To avoid further disruption, the professor Karen Yahi Milo offered students a five minute reprieve. They could raise their phones to photograph the celebrity co-teacher standing on stage, newly minted Professor Hillary Clinton. This Mrs. Clinton noted as hundreds of cameras focused upon her is like the paparazzi, a topic like foreign policy. She knows a great deal about, ugh, what a, what a joy and a wonder she is across New York City students and teachers have returned from summer vacation this week, says The New York Times for Mrs.

0 (49m 23s):
Clinton, 75. This marks her return to school after a much longer lap. It has been nearly 50 years since her stint as a professor at the University of Arkansas Law School in Fayetteville, Arkansas. On Tuesday, the day before our first lecture, Mrs. Clinton, a former Secretary of State US Senator and First Lady was setting up her office, which overlooks the campus from the 14th floor of Columbia's international affairs building, studying her binders of outlines and notes. I feel good, she said. But jittery, as is the case with most enterprises embarked upon by Mrs. Clinton, who has long been a sort of national Rorschach test, loved by many, loathed by many others, her new gig carries greater meaning than simply a return to her academic roots. The new job at Columbia may allow Mrs. Clinton to reemerge publicly as a foreign policy expert after years of being depicted in the press and the public's imagination as the presidential candidate vanquished by Donald j Trump.

0 (50m 10s):
So yeah, she's gonna pose a foreign policy expert. She presided from the worst foreign policy decisions in American history under Barack Obama, but not a particular shock. They're now establishing a new Institute of global politics over at Columbia. What is the inaugural group? Well, it includes Maria Voinovich, who's the former US Ambassador to Ukraine, who is at odds with Donald Trump, Stacey Abrams, Georgia voting rights activists. These are, these are the Institute of global politics. Stacey Abrams and Eric Schmidt, former c e o and chairman of Google, the Fellows will work with students and scholars to mesh research and practical experience in the hopes of solving social and political problems on a global. Once again, folks, if you have the ability to provide your child an alternative path to going to a Ivy League College and spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on it, do it.

0 (50m 55s):
Because if you're paying Hillary Clinton, hundreds of thousands of dollars to educate you, I, I just don't think that's gonna go amazingly well. Alright, guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be talking about idiot environmental protestors of the US Open plus the worst column of the day. If you're not a member, become member. Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free and all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.