Caesars Sportsbook (0s):
Caesar's Sportsbook is the only Sportsbook app with Caesar's Rewards. That means win or lose. Every bet brings you closer to the types of perks only Caesar's can offer. Like hotel stays at over 50 iconic destinations. Bonus Betts daily profit boosts tickets to the game dining and so much more. Whether you're a new or existing customer, Caesar's Sportsbook is always rewarding. Must be 21 gambling problem. Call 1-800-GAMBLER Caesar's Sportsbook. Don't just spectate participate.

1 (31s):
Well, this week amidst all of the domestic political hubbub, hubbub here in the United States, the world economic Forum is happening over at Davos. Now, why exactly is the world economic Forum important? We have a video, a fact video over at YouTube. You should check out for all the background on the WEF, but the short story is this. In 1971, there was a organization that was established by a guy named Klaus Schwab, who is a German engineer, economist, and professor with a James Bond villain accent. He created this organization so that heads of business and heads of state could talk over what he called stakeholder capitalism. Stakeholder capitalism with was a theory he was expressing that essentially suggested that if you owned a company, you ought not to answer to your shareholders.

1 (1m 16s):
If you managed a company, you ought not answer to profit margin or shareholders. Instead, you ought to answer to every stakeholder in the world, meaning governments, meaning people who didn't own stock in your company, meaning everyone. Now, you might ask yourself, well then exactly who are you accountable to? Because it turns out that the rando who doesn't own shares in your company can't actually fire you or sell your stock or change anything about the way you run your company. And the answer that Klaus Trob would give is you are answerable to no one. You as the head of a company, should be like a king with his own little kingdom. You as the head of a company, you should be a Lord and the company act as your fiefdom and you can pretend that you're acting in the name of the general will, but really what you are is some sort of profit from on high brought to spread your values.

1 (2m 1s):
And this was the basis of stakeholder capitalism. Now this theory was promoted via what was called the European Management Symposium. That's what the WEF was originally called in 1971. By 1975, this thing grew so fast that 860 participants, including the CEOs and chairman of the largest European companies, started showing up. And that same year, only four years after creation, the e European management form the EMF was now partnering with the United Nations. According to the WEF website itself, after five years, the Forum had gained acceptance at the highest levels of business and government while not advocating policy or strategy, the Forum had become a respected organization that served as a valuable platform for business, government, civil society, and other stakeholders to confer and collaborate.

1 (2m 45s):
In 1987, the European Management Forum changed its name from the EMF to the WEF. So what is the WEF today? Well, it's the same thing except bigger, much more prominent 10,000 people show up at the WEF every year, but the people who are on stage, the people who are meeting in the back rooms are all of the global influential people. You're talking about the heads of major corporations and the heads of government, and they all come to pat each other on the back and explore what they have in common. And what they have in common is a very peculiar set of values that you do not share with them to set of values that suggest that they are responsible for solving all of the world's problems. What are those world problems? Well, problems like war and peace, they should collude and decide what system prevails everywhere.

1 (3m 26s):
Problems like intolerance, they should collude and decide what information you are capable of seeing and understanding problems like the climate they'll get together and they'll restructure entire swaths of the global economy in order to fight back against climate change. This is what they do. And let's face it, this is a weird group of people because the people at the top levels of power, particularly in the west, are a strange group of people. They're disproportionately secular, they're disproportionately of the political left. They're people who do not have ties to traditional ways of life and traditional values. They're also people who seem to have scorned for the culture that actually bore them and instead have embraced this peculiar notion of multiculturalism in which all cultures are created equal.

1 (4m 7s):
And that leads to this really sort of paternalistic and odd look at the WEF where people are walking in wearing $5,000 suits and $20,000 watches, and then they are paying homage to poor Native Americans or natives of Europe or whatever who are showing up and breathing on them. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Pure Talk (4m 25s):
First, if you're like me, there's not a day that goes by that you don't call or text someone you care about. I mean, I talk to my family every day. I don't care about all the rest of you. My friends at Pure Talk are making it easier and more affordable to connect with the most important people in your life. Pure Talk gives you phenomenal coverage on America's most dependable 5G network. It's the same coverage You know and love, but for half the price of the other guys. With unlimited plans starting at just 20 bucks a month, the average family saves almost a thousand dollars a year. As a veteran owned company, Pure Talk raised $10 million toward veterans debt last year alone. What's more Pure Talk's Customer service team is located right here in the United States and can help you make the switch in as little as 10 minutes. So I challenge you to stand with a company that actually champions your values. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro right now. You'll save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Save on wireless with a company you can be proud to spend your money with. Again, that's Pure Talk dot com slash SHAPIRO. Pure Talk dot com slash SHAPIRO. Go check them out right now. Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro to get started.

1 (5m 24s):
Yesterday at the WF for example, we had this bizarre spectacle of a native woman of some sort with her face painted breathing on the heads of various company owners, heads of state, top level bureaucrats. Here's what it looked like. It's weird.

2 (5m 44s):
I I want my winning no matter why. Why should I? Wow.

1 (6m 6s):
What? How'd you like to have this lady sneeze on your head? Now I thought they all hated Covid, but apparently they love Covid. But again, this is all part of the show. They care about all of the stakeholders from the most remote natives to you, the people. And so these kind of Bain knockoffs except in the corporate garb, they've come up with all sorts of interesting and weird ways to restructure the global system in order to run the thing in order to control you. This is presumably why the WEF and the World Health Organization were talking a lot over the course of this week about something they call disease X. Now, let's be frank about this. Obviously every government has to have some sort of contingency plan in case the country gets hit by an epidemic, right?

1 (6m 50s):
Localities have such emergency plans, but the WHO botched COVID-19 so damned badly that the notion they have any sort of leg to stand when they preach to the rest of the world about how exactly we should deal with a future pandemic, it starts to look less as though they are attempting to create a contingency plan and more like they're sort of wish casting something like this into existence because they really love the levels of control. So here was the head of the WHO Ted Hanes, who by the way basically just works for the government of China as we'll explore in just a moment talking about disease acts and preparing the Globe for disease acts.

3 (7m 29s):
After we started putting a a placeholder You know the first that came was in the disease X is is covid. So we have experience now and we are preparing based on that experience. A lot of assessment has been done by independent panels and, and and and experts. And based on the recommendation many initiatives have we have already started. Many initiatives started and then the other key in order to have better prepared and to address the disease X is the pandemic agreement. The pandemic agreement can bring all the experience, all the challenge that we have faced and all the solutions into one.

3 (8m 14s):
And that agreement can help us to prepare for the future in in a better way.

1 (8m 21s):
That's right. All the people who failed so dramatically during COVID-19 who covered up for China and the WHO remember was a Chinese cutout. China was actively hiding information from the rest of the world. They knew this pandemic was spreading since about November of 2019 and they said nothing to the rest of the world and they lied to the WHO that it was not being transmitted human to human. And the WHO dutifully repeated all of that because they wanted to keep China in the fold. Sponsoring the World Health Organization, these same people are still insisting that they ought to run things going forward. There is never any accountability 'cause this is the beauty of a stakeholder system as opposed to a shareholder system. When you own a share in a corporation, you have a vote. When you have a stake in something just broadly speaking, it kinda means nothing.

1 (9m 2s):
You don't have a stake in the WHO. You don't have a share in the WO. You got no control over the WHO and that is what the WF is really about. By the way, an exclusive from the Wall Street Journal today, quote, Chinese researchers isolated and mapped the virus that caused COVID-19 in late December, 2019, at least two weeks before Beijing revealed details of the deadly virus to the world. Congressional investigators said raising questions anew about what China knew in the pandemic's crucial early days. Documents obtained from the US Department of Health and Human Services by a house committee and reviewed by the Wall Street Journal Show, a Chinese researcher in Beijing uploaded a nearly complete sequence of the viruses structure to a US government-run database December 28th, 2019. Chinese officials at that time were still publicly describing the disease outbreak in Wuhan as a viral mebo of unknown cause.

1 (9m 45s):
They still had not closed the Huan seafood wholesale market sight of one of the initial COVID-19 outbreaks. And again, China continued to lie for like a full month that there was no dangerous human-to-human transmission. The Chinese researcher who submitted the virus sequence, a Dr. Lily Ren of the Beijing based institute pathogen biology, did not respond to an email seeking comment. Well, you'll never hear of her again since her name has now been publicly reported. In the present, China is an authoritarian tyrannical government. So WH o's an amazing job and naturally this means that we have to continue to include them in the world system. All the people who botched it last time, we are going to keep them in control. So disease X is one methodology of control, other methodologies of control, climate change.

1 (10m 29s):
So there's language that people on the left love to use when they're talking about controlling you and that is the language of war. The war on poverty is about controlling income. It is about controlling redistribution of wealth. The war on climate change is similarly about controlling exactly how you live your life. This is why people in politics are constantly eager to use war language because in a war you get to put your entire population on rations. In a war you get to draft people and put them in barracks. In a war he gets to take control of literally everybody at all times, day and night. This is why John Kerry is eager to talk about war. He compares climate change to fighting. Hitler is over at the WEF

4 (11m 10s):
And I'm here again today because I'm convinced that the only way we win this battle is by stepping up exponentially from where we are today and begin to treat this fight almost as if we are in a war. I hate the war analogies some 'cause we get tired of them and they're probably overused, but unfortunately it's it's it's aptt in World War II when we needed to gain control over the skies and of the ocean and learn how to penetrate Hitler's defenses in order to win the battle of freedom, it was mid-level techs who made a lot of decisions that actually helped us win the war.

1 (11m 53s):
Okay? So again, that sort of language is the lever for exercising power. Now there was one wonderful moment during the WEF Javier Mele, who's become my spirit animal, the president of Argentina who is colorful and wonderful economist, rockstar, and just all around Wolfman. He was speaking at the WF and he just laid into them and it was wonderful.

5 (12m 16s):
Do not surrender to the advance of the state. The state is not the solution, the state is the problem itself. You are the true protagonists of this story and rest assured that as from today, Argentina is your staunch unconditional ally. Thank you very much and long lived freedom dam it. Today I'm here to tell you that the western world is in danger and it is endangered because those were supposed to have to defend the valleys of the west. I co-opted by a vision of the world that inextricably leads to socialism and thereby to poverty.

5 (12m 56s):
Unfortunately, in recent decades motivated by some well-meaning individuals willing to help others and others motivated by the wish to belong to a privileged cast. The main leaders of the western world have abandoned the model of freedom for different versions of what we call collectivism.

1 (13m 19s):
Okay, this is great stuff and good for Javier Mele going to the WFN slapping people across the head. It's precisely what they deserve, but it's not just a problem inside the WEF. There are plenty of people in the United States who hold the same peculiar globalist vision in which the elites of society ought to construct pretty much everything up to and including the demographic shape of the United States. That's the only reason I can think why we continue to futz around over America's southern border. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Good Ranchers (13m 46s):
First, put some prep in your step with good rancher's New year, new meat, special, delicious, safe, convenient meal prep. Just one box away. 2024 is your year to ditch the mystery of the meat aisle and get American meat delivered right to your door. Instead, when you subscribe to any box of good Ranchers, they'll add over two pounds of Pre trimmed better than organic chicken breasts to your order for free. Not once, not twice every order for a year. Good Ranchers chicken will change what You know about chicken. It is pasture raised given zero antibiotics or vaccines. It's so tender and juicy. You're not gonna believe it's the same meat you've been eating most of your life. Stock your fridge with easy to prepare, clean, delicious meat all year long. If you're not sure which box to choose, try their brand new weekly essentials box. It's full of Pre trimmed beef and chicken that helps you meal prep so you can save time without sacrificing flavor. Simply head on over to good Ranchers dot com. Use my coach Shapiro. Enjoy free chicken in 2024 plus an additional 20 bucks off your very first order. Change the way you buy meat. Switch on over to good Ranchers, subscribe today. Use my coach Shapiro and claim over $200 in free chicken and new year savings. Good Ranchers dot com American meat delivered.

1 (14m 46s):
So apparently no compromise is coming on immigration. That's because the White House refuses to just pass HR two. HR two is a strong on the border security bill from the House Republicans. Instead, they're proposing a series of changes that would remain extremely soft on illegal immigration. Speaker Mike Johnson, to his credit, is refusing to go ahead with any sort of compromise. Border Bill along the lines of the Democrats are looking for. According to the New York Times speaker Mike Johnson on Wednesday dug in against President Biden's efforts to revive stalled legislation to send aid to Ukraine saying the Republican-led house would not entertain it unless Democrats agreed to a far more severe crackdown at the US Mexico border than they have been willing to consider. He said, I told the president when I've been saying for many months, it's said, we ha must have changed at the border substantive policy change.

1 (15m 29s):
We must insist that the border be the top priority. Well, Joe Biden had summoned the lawmakers in both parties to lecture them about Ukraine, about the importance of repelling Russia's invasion, but he refused to actually commit to any serious changes at the border. Meanwhile, some of the Senate Republicans are ready to cut any sort of deal apparently Senator Republicans said they're hopeful. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky who's fairly soft on immigration said the Senate could vote as soon as next week on a national security spending bill combining border measures with military assistance for Ukraine and Israel as well. It seems to me that what is being proposed in the Senate, Senate is far too weak for Republicans in the House to sign onto.

1 (16m 11s):
So leading Senate Republicans are saying this is the best chance the GOP has had in years to secure serious border policy concessions from Democrats. But I really doubt that I think that Joe Biden is willing to cave more than he has thus far. So what exactly is being proposed at this point? Well, it's something called the Dignity Act. So the So-called Dignity Act was originally brought up in 2023 by representative Maria Elvar Salazar of Florida, who I know she's a delightful person, but she's wrong on this bill and other co-sponsors, including people like Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas. And again, this is a fairly weak immigration bill. It includes $25 billion for more border security like barriers and technology, and it does hire and train more personnel both regard to asylum reform.

1 (16m 58s):
It essentially says that there would be humanitarian campuses managed by CBP along the southern border where migrants would be held. Asylum officers would then conduct asylum interviews and make final determinations on the campuses. Migrants would have access to medical staff, licensed social workers, mental health professionals, child advocates, private organizations that provide humanitarian assistance and legal counsel. Under that bill, within the first 15 days, the staff would provide an initial screening including criminal background checks, biometric data, verify identification, conduct medical assessments, and migrants unable to establish a credible fear during an initial screening would be subjected to expedited removal from the United States. Then presumably asylum seekers would theoretically be held for another 45 days, although it's unclear to me whether they would then be released into the United States because otherwise things are just gonna continue to swell at the border.

1 (17m 48s):
Obviously one of the big problems here here is how do you establish credible fear? What exactly does credible fear look like from a migration official with the staff of these humanitarian campuses? According to the bill, within 45 days of passing the initial credible fear interview a trained US citizenship and Immigration services asylum officer would view the individual's asylum claim claimant make a final determination. Asylum officers must deny, approve or refer complex or uncertain cases to an immigration judge. So basically you would end up with the same sort of backlog that you currently have for those who are referred to an immigration judge. The bill will then create a system by which asylum seekers would receive a notice to appear and then be released from the humanitarian campus. So this would continue to maintain catch and release.

1 (18m 29s):
It would just do so in a more delayed fashion than is currently being applied. This is the reason why Republicans in the house are not willing to go forward with this. It also creates worker status for illegal immigrants who are already here in the country. It is a very, very soft bill, which is precisely of course what Republicans are saying. It keeps the border open. So the question is why don't Democrats just cave seriously? Why don't they just cave? Why don't they give Republicans more of what they want? Get some sort of actual border compromise done in the bill. They can go back to their base and say, listen, we needed the Ukraine funding, we needed it. And so we had to cave and then they could go to moderates and say, we actually did something to stop the flow at the border. Instead, they keep doubling down on open borders rhetoric and then they're blaming Republicans for quote unquote not wanting to fix immigration.

1 (19m 12s):
That dog ain't gonna hunt. Joe Biden is the one who broke the immigration system beyond all repair. Here's Kamala Harris, the incompetent vice president of the United States blaming Republicans for failures on immigration.

6 (19m 23s):
Everyone knows our immigration system is broken, right? Okay. The first bill that we dropped, the first bill that we offered right after inauguration was to fix the immigration system, a comprehensive plan to deal with the immigration system. Do you think they've taken it up? No. We want solutions. The solutions are at hand, but frankly, we're in an election year and the folks who wanna return Donald Trump to the White House would prefer to talk about a broken immigration system instead of focusing on the solutions that are at hand and engaging in bipartisan work.

1 (20m 2s):
But the solutions that you want are an open border. Again, they keep saying things like, we need more processing at the border, but what they really mean is they want to allow more people to use the asylum system to get into the country. Until you change the actual rules with regard to who is adjudicated eligible for asylum, nothing is actually going to change. We get to more on this in just one second.

Tommy John (20m 22s):
First, if you are looking to treat yourself this year, you deserve nothing but the best. I'm talking about Tommy John, their loungewear underwear. Everything they sell is just the best stuff. With over 20 million pairs sold and thousands of five star reviews, Tommy John doesn't have customers. They have fanatics like me. Tommy, John, loungewear. It's cozy enough to use his sleepwear. It's stylish enough to wear for a quick stroll to the coffee shop. You won't look like you rolled outta bed even if you probably did. Tommy John Loungewear is breathable and lightweight, yet durable. I've washed my Tommy John's over and over again. They stand the test of time. Tommy John Loungewear guaranteed to fit perfectly comfy non pilling microm modal fabric, no lint balls, no fuzz luxuriously soft tri blend fabrics with flexible four way stretch. Plus, your most valuable assets remain protected with Tommy. John's best Perial ever wear or it's free guaranteed. So what are you waiting for? Try Tommy John today. You can thank me later. Shop Tommy John. Get 20% off your first order right now at Tommy John dot com slash Ben. Save 20% off for a limited time at Tommy John dot com slash Ben. That's Tommy John dot com slash Ben. See site for details. Tommy John dot com slash Ben.

1 (21m 21s):
Democrats again, they keep trying to blame Republicans for this. I don't think that it is going to work. Here's Kareem Jean Pierre World's worst press secretary doing the same thing.

7 (21m 29s):
How will the President receive that message today? If Johnson says this is too complicated to do right now,

8 (21m 35s):
Making sure that we take care of our border is not too complicated. It's not. It's not. If people come together in good faith as they've been doing in the Senate, we can get this done. We can get this done. And let's not forget the President actually put forth a comprehensive immigration proposal almost three years ago, very almost three years ago. We had three years, three years to work on something if that was what the Speaker Johnson is concerned about. We had three years to work on it.

1 (22m 2s):
I mean, and it was a terrible proposal. You had three years to do something and you didn't do it, and the reason you didn't do it is because it's a terrible proposal. Now why is that happening? Why is that happening? The answer is back to the wf. There is in fact an agenda to do away with America's southern border and some Democrats are more clear about this than others. So for example, Democratic representative Max Frost who's in Florida, he says that if you want HR two, which is a way of solidifying the border, changing the rules with regard to asylum, for example, what you really want to do is destroy the Statue of Liberty. This is my favorite stupid rhetoric is this, is this notion that the Statue of Liberty is somehow coincident with the Constitution of the United States. It has some poetry on it and that's it.

1 (22m 43s):
It does not dictate the policy of the United States being an open immigration policy. That's absurd. Here is this Democratic Congress person saying the quiet part out loud

9 (22m 52s):
To my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. Let's be honest with immigrants who deserve better than what you're offering them. Don't welcome immigrants if you plan to reject them. If you keep pushing your bigoted HR two bill, then also pass this bill. I've taken the liberty of drafting it for you. It removes the Statue of Liberty, our largest symbol that tells people to come here. This is who you are removing the fabric of America. So I wanna know which Republican who supports and voted for HR two will introduce this bill.

1 (23m 25s):
The only people tearing down statues by the way right now are Democrats. So that is absurd. Alexander Ocasio-Cortez, she of the weeping at the border over child separations, but only when Trump is president. She is also saying the quiet part out loud, which is they do want the open borders, they want those open borders and they want 'em bad.

10 (23m 43s):
Virtually every single member of this committee is here today as a result of and thanks to more open US immigration policies and the idea of slamming the door when we desperately need these migrants, when we desperately need it. And what we need is an orderly process. We want, it's not that we don't need or want folks to come, it's that we actually have to make it easier for these individuals to participate in our economy, get a job, support themselves and live the American dream. And what this, what this conversation is about, is about defending the American dream.

1 (24m 21s):
The American dream presumably is that there be no border whatsoever. Now again, countries can have open immigration policies so long as their economies are not giant welfare economies. So long as there is the courage of their conviction with regard, with regard to assimilation into your culture, you can have open borders under those circumstances. That was in fact a policy of the United States in the late 19, in the late 19th century. That sort of thing was part of American policy and didn't destroy the country. But once you had a welfare state, it changes all the math pretty dramatically. And not only that, once you add onto that a multicultural notion that people don't have to learn English, but they don't actually have to learn American customs in ways of life, then of course the social fabric of the country is going to fray.

1 (25m 5s):
But a OC doesn't care about any of that. She's perfectly happy to see the social fabric of the country fray because she agrees with the basic premises of many of the people at the wf. The top down administrative control over nearly every area of life is better for you and that borders are parochial, borders are wrong. Of course, it's the world economic Forum, not the national economic Forum. Now there's still some Democrats or soon to be former Democrats who, who acknowledged the reality about this. Joe Manchin is one of them. The senator from West Virginia. He says, well of course the border is worse under Biden. Everybody knows that.

11 (25m 39s):
One of the leaders of the president's reelection committee come on with Brett Berry yesterday and said, Joe, but Donald Trump did nothing at the border and the border's better under Joe Biden. Do you think that's a correct assessment?

12 (25m 51s):
That is absolutely false. They're living in La la land, it's a disaster and they know it's a disaster. So let's fix it. And only thing I would implore the president to do to consider this and to do it immediately if Congress cannot come together because the perfect could be the enemy of the good. You have Republicans that might wanna shut everything down, throw border, throw any type of immigration out the out the window, and you have re Democrats who might think everything's fine. It's not fine. It's a disaster. It's dangerous. And I would implore the president to declare a national emergency and secure our border immediately if Congress can't do something this week.

1 (26m 28s):
By the way, it's worth noting here that immigration is a top issue for both Democrats and Republicans in the upcoming election, which is just another reason why Donald Trump is running so durably against Joe Biden despite all of his legal troubles, foibles and myriad excesses, of which there's a brand new poll out of New Hampshire. This is not a c plus rated American research group poll. This poll is from the Saint Anselm poll of likely Voters and it finds that Donald Trump currently has a 14 point lead on Nikki Haley in New Hampshire. He is at 52%, Nikki Haley at 38% in Ron DeSantis at 6% As I've suggested, I think that Trump has the momentum. I think effectively speaking, just based on the data, the race for the GOP nomination is over, but Democrats have no strategy of course to deal with Donald Trump other than simply targeting him as a human being.

1 (27m 15s):
This of course is Kamala Harris's plan here she was yesterday suggesting that she is scared as heck. She's running against the crazies, like of course Donald Trump.

13 (27m 24s):
What could happen if Trump ever became, God forbid, president again and what are you going to do to stop the crazies?

6 (27m 32s):
I am scared as heck. Yeah, which is why I'm traveling our country. You know there's an old saying that there are only two ways to run for office, either without an opponent or scared. So on all of those points, yes, we should all be scared. Yeah. But as we know, and certainly this is a a table of very powerful women. Yeah. We don't run away from something when we're scared we fight back against her. Yeah. This

1 (28m 1s):
Right, this is you, this is what we call a little bit of strength right here with the bouncing of the shoulders. That's when, that's when You know that she's about to lay one on you real thick. What's hilarious about all of this of is of course, if the entire pitch against Trump is leave our incompetence aside and focus in on the fact that Donald Trump is a big, bad, mean orange man, that's not going to work. Jamie Diamond, again, Jamie Di is not remotely a radical Republican. The JP Morgan CEO, he was asked yesterday about Joe Biden's campaign chance. He's like, Joe Biden's in a lot of trouble and demonizing ma Republicans is not going to help him.

14 (28m 35s):
And, and I think people should be a little more respectful of our fellow citizens. And when you guys have people up here, you should always ask the why. Not like it's a binary thing. You're supporting Trump, you're not supporting Trump. Why are you supporting Trump? It's

15 (28m 46s):
Hard to hate 75 million of your fellow Americans. And it's, I I agree. It's done And.

14 (28m 50s):
You know, the Democrats have done a pretty good job with the deplorables hugging on their Bibles and their beer and their guns. I mean really like can we just stop that stuff and actually grow up and treat other people with respect and listen to 'em a little bit? Jamie and I do think the economy will affect, and I think this, this negative talk about MAGA is going to hurt Biden's election.

1 (29m 10s):
It's coming from Jamie Diamond. Jamie Diamond is not some sort of wild right winger. He's wearing a Ukraine pin on the air while he's talking with M-S-N-B-C talking about all of this. Now Democrats are banking again on Donald Trump's legal foibles to drag him down. They're looking at polling like the polling from Ipsos yesterday, that polling found that if Donald Trump were convicted of a felony crime by a jury, that that might ding him in the polls. So according to this poll, 59% of Americans say they would not vote for Donald Trump if they're convicted of a felony crime by a jury, as opposed to 25% who said that they would. A majority of Republicans said they vote for Trump 52 to 31, even if you were convicted of a felony crime. Democrats of course split 86 8 against, but that's no shock.

1 (29m 51s):
They're split 86 8 against Trump. Generally, independents are the ones who really shift 66% say they would not vote for Donald Trump if convicted of a federal crime. If he is currently in prison. Even 39% of Republicans say we're not gonna vote for him if he's currently in prison. 62% of Americans overall said they would not vote for Donald Trump if he is in prison. Now, the chance of him actually being in prison by the time we get to the election, I think are incredibly low, like very, very low based on appeals, based on the, the length of time it takes to actually do a trial. I also think that some of these poll numbers about being convicted of a felony crime by a jury, I think most Americans don't even know what he's being charged with. So the idea that he gets convicted of felony mishandling of classified documents and that a bunch of independents like, oh, I, I won't vote for that guy anymore.

1 (30m 33s):
I, I just don't, I don't see that as being a, a real huge concern for the Trump campaign particularly because there are a lot of obstacles that are coming down the pike for these various legal cases. So for example, as Politico points out, there is a case called Joseph Fisher versus United States, which the Supreme court has agreed to hear in December. It doesn't explicitly mention Donald Trump, but it could knock out a bunch of the January 6th charges against Trump. At issue in that case is whether prosecutors and the Department of Justice have been improperly using a 2002 law originally aimed at curbing financial crimes to prosecute a January 6th defendant named Joseph Fisher should the court side with Fisher would call into question the use of the same law against other January 6th defendants including Trump Smith's indictment against Trump, again carries four charges, four counts.

1 (31m 20s):
Two of those are for obstruction of an official proceeding and for conspiracy to do so, but that's all under Sarbanes Sarbanes Oxley. The Sarbanes Oxley Act was originally designed to make it criminal to obstruct official proceedings of US gov government in financial scandals, not with regard to, for example, the counting of the vote and of course Donald Trump taking legal means like filing lawsuits or calling people on the phone and saying, if you could theoretically get certified as an alternative state elector for your state, would you go and talk about that in Washington? Like first of all, the crime may not be a crime. Second of all, the crime in this particular case may be completely in the wrong category, and the Supreme court could easily say Sarbanes Oxley was never meant to apply to Donald Trump's January 6th activities.

1 (32m 7s):
As Politico says, the impact of Fisher on the January 6th trial against Trump might not be known until after the Supreme Court wraps up its term in June, at which point it could knock out half of Smith's counts against Trump. Meanwhile, the other cases that are, that are currently in play, like for example, the Alvin Bragg case in Manhattan, that case is a joke. That case is a joke. Think about it this way. Donald Trump right now is running an incredibly durable even campaign against Joe Biden right now. He's up in many of the polls. He's in the middle of his second defamation trial with Eugene Carroll and he's yelling at the judge, I mean literally yelling at the judge and no one caress. Literally yesterday there was an exchange between Trump and a judge named Louis Kaplan in which the judge said, Mr.

1 (32m 50s):
Trump has the right to be president here, but that right can be forfeited. Mr. Trump, I hope I don't have to consider excluding you from the trial. And Trump shot back, I would have it. And Kaplan said, I know you would. I know you would. You just can't control yourself in the circumstances apparently it's hilarious and, and, and no one's gonna care about that. Like seriously, no. How is that gonna hurt Trump? How's that? The answer is it's not because everything is baked into the, as I've said for a while, every single thing is baked into the cake except for the circumstances of the United States. And that is not in Donald Trump's control. That is in Joe Biden's control and increasingly it's looking very bad. We'll get to more on that in just one second, particularly some economic news.

Jeremy's (33m 27s):
First you may have noticed we hit The Daily Wire. We like biology because there are only two sexes and that's obvious should be obvious to everyone, but some of our loyal customers point out a flaw in our Jeremy's shop, we only cater to one of the sexes. Jeremy's Razors is all about equal opportunity to shop that woke free economy. That's why we have Jeremy's Razors for women because women deserve the same quality woke free blades as men, two sexes, two Razors. It really is that simple. When God makes a new sex, then I guess we'll have to make a new razor. Plus we have a line of personal care products for our better halves, including moisturizing, shave cream, lotion, body wash, and deodorant. Ladies, head on over to jeremy's Razors dot com right now, get your razor and personal care products today.

1 (34m 3s):
Okay, meanwhile, speaking of Joe Biden's economy story out from the Wall Street Journal today, and it points out that we have a bunch of economic trains coming down those tracks. And, we are tied to those tracks like no, it's not gonna be great. And Joe Biden is a very, very bad Dudley do right According to the Wall Street Journal. The troubling commercial real estate market is bracing for a record amount of maturing loans, boosting the prospect of a surge in defaults. As property owners are forced to refinance at higher rates in 20 23, 540 $1 billion in debt backed by office buildings, hotels, apartments, and other types of commercial real estate came due. That's the highest amount ever for a single year. According to data firm trap, commercial debt maturities are expected to continue rising with more than 2.2 trillion coming due between now and the end of 2027.

1 (34m 47s):
Most of those loans have so far been repaid or extended in 2022 and 2023. Many owners were able to exercise one or two year extensions built into their original loans, but those extensions are now burning off, they're coming due. That means many borrowers have to confront that higher rate environment and that is depressing property values. So what happens when a bunch of foreclosures happen because people can't afford the higher commercial lending rates? What happens then? Well, it means some people are gonna get laid off. It means that inflated real estate prices are going to come down because again, Joe Biden's economy was always inflated and what goes up must come down and of course the problems are mounting for Joe Biden pretty much everywhere they are mounting with regard to Ukraine as well.

1 (35m 27s):
According to Tony Blinken, a ceasefire is nowhere in sight with regard to Ukraine, which is kind of amazing because just a couple of months into the war, a ceasefire was actually on the board in Vladimir Putin ended up backing away after further Ukrainian war action. Here was Tony Blinken talking about how there is no ceasefire imminent in Ukraine.

16 (35m 48s):
Are we anywhere near any kind of negotiation though for a stable long-term ceasefire?

17 (35m 55s):
Look, in this moment, I don't see it. We're always open to it, attentive to it because more than anyone else, the Ukrainian people want this, but there has to be a willingness on the part of Russia to engage, to negotiate in good faith based on the basic principles that have been challenged by its aggression.

1 (36m 17s):
Okay, well good luck with that. Meanwhile, top NATO officials are warning that things are going to get uglier before they get better in Ukraine. According to the Associated Press, Ukraine is now locked in an existential battle for its survival. Almost two years into its war with Russia, Western armies and political leaders must drastically change the way they help it fend off invading forces. According to a top NATO military officer on Wednesday, as the war bogs down with us and European Union funding for Ukraine's conflict ravaged economy held up by political infighting, this NATO general is appealing for a whole of society approach to the challenge that goes beyond military planning. He said, we need public and private actors to change their mindset for an era in which everything was plantable, foreseeable, controllable, and focused on efficiency to an era in which anything can happen at any time. Does that sound like a great pitch for Joe Biden's administration?

1 (36m 58s):
Like that's the bumper sticker Biden 2024. Anything can happen at any time. Does that make you feel a sense of quiescence, an internal, an internal solidity? Does that make you feel secure? I mean, the answer is of course not because why wouldn't the world has become significantly more chaotic under Joe Biden. That is particularly true, obviously not just in Ukraine but also in the Middle East. John Kirby has now been forced to make the unfortunate statement that removing the Houthis, the Yemeni Houthis from the terrorists in 2021, which is just one of the things the Biden administration did to encourage Iranian aggression, that that actually was not a stupid move. He has to say that because now, now of course they're re-listing the Houthis as a terror group here was John Kirby yesterday,

7 (37m 43s):
Was it a mistake to take them off of the terrorist list back in 2021, just like consideration over these years? No,

1 (37m 50s):
No, no. It was not a mistake to take them off. We just had to put them back on, but sure, no, no, no. It was no mistake at all. Meanwhile, the Iranian foreign minister Hussein Amir Abdulah, he's openly threatening the United States saying that if the United States is too unfriendly, then Iran will be unfriendly. I noticed Iran being unfriendly in the red Sea in Pakistan, in Iraq, in Syria, in Lebanon, in Northern Israel. In southern Israel. I noticed some unfriendliness from the Iranians actually. And meanwhile, the Biden administration is just running around like a chicken with its head cut off saying, well, we're just, we're trying to cool the waters, cool the waters. Can we put some more pressure on Israel to make some concessions to the power? Just cool the waters. Here's the Iranian Foreign Minister again. This is the foreign minister of a country that is a second rate power.

1 (38m 34s):
This does not mean the United States has has to go to war with Iran. It's just the United States should not be intimidated by Iranian proxies. We have the largest and most able military force in the history of the world, and we're being intimidated by again, who these Hezbollah members. Hamas is ridiculous. Here's the Iranian foreign minister threatening the world.

18 (38m 54s):
If they talk to us, treat us respectfully, we will do the same thing. But anything unconstructive the unfriendly, the the behaviors of the United States, we will retaliate to them. It it'll be in the favor of the peace and security of the world. If the United States would become less hostile, would become cooperative instead of confrontational.

1 (39m 22s):
Oh, it's that the United States is confrontational. Let it be known by the way that the Iranian revolutionary guard court is responsible for at least 2000 deaths of American truth in Iraq. Iran is the most nefarious force on planet earth in terms of spreading its terror tentacles everywhere, and they're openly sitting there at Davos and threatening the world. It really is an amazing, amazing thing. By the way, the West, which is currently attempting to push Israel into some sort of ceasefire with Hamas in the bizarre notion that this is going to somehow buy off Iranians Iranian proxies, they, Hamas is making perfectly clear who they are every single day. New tape has now emerged from October 7th of Hamas, literally sawing at the necks of dead Israelis, like literally chopping the heads off dead Israelis ISIS style.

1 (40m 7s):
But don't worry, these are people who should be left in power to, to fire rockets willy nilly into the center of Israeli civilian areas because after all, the Israelis are just too mean in their own self-defense. That's the real problem here. CNN broadcast this yesterday.

19 (40m 18s):
This is one video shared with CNN by an Israeli source that we are showing you. Security cameras at the near Oz Kibbutz in southern Israel show a knife wielding gunman soaring at the necks of dead Israelis. Evidence of beheadings cementing an Israeli view that Hamas is now akin to a jihadi groups like Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State or isis. Well,

1 (40m 45s):
It seems like they might have some evidence for that proposition. In fact, that's not even the worst beheading story of the day. According to a man named David Tahar, his son was a, a kid named Adir Tahar. His son was, I believe 19 years old and he was murdered on October 7th and then he was beheaded and apparently they then took his head back to Gaza and tried to sell it ad's. Father said, I demanded to see the body. They warned me against it, but as a father, I needed to know every detail about my child's death. Half an hour before his burial, the body arrived at the cemetery. When I opened the casket, I realized what I was burying. He was unrecognizable as we buried ad I knew I was inuring my child without his face, so I had to keep searching for it.

1 (41m 26s):
The grieving father spent weeks searching for a lead. I reviewed all videos and eventually found footage of my son missing. A critical part of his body said David. Three weeks ago, during the interrogation of two Hamas terrorists arrested in Israel, they confessed that one of them had attempted to sell my son's head for $10,000 in Gaza. The IDF then entered Gaza, searched an ice cream shop's freezer, and there in a suitcase they found my son's head, which had also been desecrated. At least I was able to bury him with the little dignity that remained. Now clearly Palestinian Israeli peace is just over the horizon. It's gonna happen anytime now and probably that will make the Iranians calm down again. Anything can happen at any time is a very good slogan as it turns out for the 2024 Biden campaign, because it feels like anything can happen at any time.

1 (42m 11s):
Meanwhile, the Supreme Court is about to make a very critical decision that will in fact shift an enormous amounts of power back to the legislature. This is a really big story that is going largely under the radar because a little complicated According to the Washington Post. A divided Supreme court debated whether and how to curtail the power of federal agencies on Wednesday with liberals urging the court to defer to the judgment of government experts and conservatives saying judges should not systematically favor government regulators over private companies, industry, or individuals in litigation. After more than three hours of argument, it was unclear whether the court's conservative majority would overturn or simply scale back the 40-year-old precedent. That is under review in a pair of cases brought by herring fishermen from New Jersey and Rhode Island. So very often the circumstances surrounding very important cases are really, really small and peculiar.

1 (42m 56s):
Basically, there is a federal rule requiring commercial fishermen to pay for atsy monitors. The court decision, however, is not really about that. It is about whether federal regulatory agencies are capable of regulating huge swaths of American life or whether it turns out those regulations have to stand up to constitutional scrutiny. Conservatives have been targeting a framework that was set up in 1984 under a case called Chevron USA versus National Resources Defense Council. That case set up something called Chevron deference, which suggested that if the Congress passed a law and the law wasn't specific enough, that basically regulatory agencies could then use their expertise to read the tea leaves, they could sit there and Rorschach test this thing and come up with giant books filled with regulations based on the vagal language of statute and then presumably the courts would've nothing to say about it because if Congress really wanted to do anything about it, they could pass a new regulation taking that power away from regulatory agencies.

1 (43m 53s):
But they hadn't. And therefore, basically the the, the courts could not sit in judgment on anything these regulatory agencies were doing. That, of course, is ridiculous. That creates a truly perversed incentive structure where Congress, these members aren't elected. They pass a bunch of vague laws. They're never held accountable because if something goes wrong, it's not happening because of them. It's happening because of the regulators. Regulators get to do whatever they want. There's huge amounts of industry capture in the regulatory agencies. If you are a regulatory agency and you are overseeing, for example, laws with regard to the Sea, major industries are going to get into the woodwork and they are going to start writing those laws for you. That's how so many regulations are written. And again, congressmen are perfectly happy to kick the can over to the regulatory agencies.

1 (44m 35s):
It is up to the judiciary to maintain the balance of power, the checks and balances that were set up in the constitution, which is why Chevron deference should die on Wednesday. Justices Brett Kavanaugh and Neil Gorsuch, both nominees of President Trump, took turns peppering the Biden administration with skeptical questions as solicitor General Elizabeth Langer defended the Trump administration initiative and the longstanding Chevron precedent. Kavanaugh said Chevron has allowed federal agencies to flip flop and impose different rules every time a new administration takes over leaving judges with little choice but to defer to the changing interpretations of agency officials. Which of course is very weird because if regulatory agencies can take positions that are directly opposed to one another and Congress supposedly authorized both those positions at the same time, how could that possibly be?

1 (45m 19s):
How could that be? Gorsuch has called long ago for getting rid of Chevron deference. Of course, Democrats are very much in favor of it because they believe in a bureaucratic administrative centralized government where elections don't matter so much in the legislative branch where everything can be done by a powerful executive branch. This is a model of government first pushed by Woodrow Wilson in the early 20th century. The notion of a bureaucratic administrative government of experts who would administer the government on your behalf for the people. It looks very much like that. WEF globalist centralized power idea except applied to the American government. It'll be interesting to see which way Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Amy Coney Barrett go on this one. It is possible that what they do is they say we don't like Houthis particular regulation is being pervade.

1 (46m 3s):
It's also possible to get rid of Chevron deference entirely. They should. They should get rid of Chevron deference entirely. The notion that, again, regulatory agencies ought to be unanswerable entirely when it comes to their interpretations of statute by the judiciary hands. Way too much power to the executive branch of government. A restoration by the way of checks and balances in government where the legislature legislates and the executive branch executes and the judiciary adjudicates. That would be the single best thing that could happen in the United States to restore any level of credibility in our government. 'cause right now we think Congress is incompetent 'cause they don't even do the legislating. They pass giant omnibus packages and then we think the executive grabs too much power and thus is incompetent because they have too much power over our lives.

1 (46m 44s):
And, we didn't let say Anthony Fauci, who's a bureaucratic administrator, and then we think the judiciary just sits there and does nothing about any of this. When the various branches of government do what they were supposed to do in the first place, they reestablish their credibility. That's why it would be excellent if the Supreme court did get rid of Chevron deference already coming up. We're gonna jump into that Vaunted Ben SHAPIRO Show mailbag. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

0 (47m 15s):
Caesar's Sportsbook is the only Sportsbook app with Caesar's Rewards. That means win or lose every bet brings you closer to the types of perks only Caesar's can offer. Like hotel stays at over 50 iconic destinations. Bonus Betts daily profit boosts tickets to the game dining and so much more. Whether you are a new or existing customer, Caesar's Sportsbook is always rewarding. Must be 21 gambling problem. Call 1-800-GAMBLER Caesar's Sportsbook. Don't just spectate participate.