0 (0s):
Stagnating in the polls, Joe Biden turns to the race card to try to get out of his political funk. the Left considers another round of covid craziness and Donald Trump's January 6th. The trial date is set for the day before Super Tuesday. I'm Ben Shapiro. This is the Bench Bureau show.

ExpressVPN (18s):
Today's show's sponsor by Express VPN. Thousands of my listeners have already secured the network data. Join them at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (24s):
So people really, really, really are not interested in a Joe Biden. Donald Trump matchup for 2024 by every available poll, and yet that is likely beyond likely at this point to be the actual matchup going into the 2024 election. And by the polling data, people really don't like either one of these candidates. According to the Associated Press president Joe Biden is old and confused. Former President Donald Trump is corrupt and dishonest. Those are among the top terms. American Jews when they're asked to describe the Democrat in the White House and Republicans best positioned to face him in next year's election. There's a new pool poll from the Associated Press and or C Center for Public Affairs research for Biden. The largest share of US adults mentioned his age at 80. Biden is just three years older than Trump, but he also looks like he's half dead.

0 (1m 7s):
Trump meanwhile has been eliciting words like corrupt and crooked. 15 by 15% bad. Other negative comments about 11% liar and dishonest 8%, about 8% offered generally positive comments like good. So the general breakdown here is that when it comes to Joe Biden, 26% of respondents used words like old or outdated to describe Biden. Another 15% mentioned things like slow or confused. Another 10% gave generally negative comments about the president. 6% used words like corrupt and crooked. Only 6% offered words like president and leader and 5% like strong and capable. Even among Democrats, 28% mentioned his age significantly higher than leadership or strength and capability.

0 (1m 49s):
Trump's negative comments according to the AP sent not on age but on his moral standing in conduct along with things like loudmouth, which was 6% and angry crazy and dangerous 6%, narcissist 6%, 5% used words like strong and capable. 62% of Americans say they have an unfavorable opinion of Trump, which is not a good recipe for winning an election. 52% say the same thing about Joe Biden. Also not an amazing stat for winning an election. So once again, we are going to run a couple of very, very unpopular people against one another in the odd belief by both sides that the other guy is way more unpopular than their own guy and therefore your own guy really doesn't matter and you cannot lose. Well here's the problem for Joe Biden. Joe Biden can lose. So if Joe Biden were somehow to lose to Donald Trump, it would be the single worst defeat for Democrats of my lifetime, like worse than 2016 when Trump beat Hillary Clinton because nobody actually thought Trump was gonna win that one.

0 (2m 39s):
But now everybody understands that Trump can win that one. So if Biden somehow loses to Donald Trump post January 6th, post his 2020 defeat post all the rest of this stuff, that'd be the single most humiliating defeat for Democrats in my lifetime and probably ever. Which means that Joe Biden's in a little bit of trouble here. I mean if you look at the real clear politics polling average in the Trump versus Biden race, and again, it's very early, so it's not as though it is definitely gonna be Trump versus Biden, but you have to look at the front runners for both parties right now. Right now, Joe Biden in the real clear politics polling average is up just one percentage point, just one according to Emerson, Trump is actually up two points 46 to 44. Now do I believe that it's actually quite that close?

0 (3m 19s):
I don't. The reason being, when you look under the top line of these stats, very often what you are seeing, for example, there's a stat yesterday that came out that showed Joe Biden just 61% minority support. That is not going to be the actual number when the election comes around. No Democrat has won less than 70% of minority support for probably four decades. But with that said, is this election too close for comfort for Joe Biden? You bet Corina Shapiro was asked about this polling data showing that even Democrats think that Joe Biden is old slow and not with it. Here was her answer.

3 (3m 48s):
If this White House of additional plans to demonstrate that he can continue to, you know, do the job at his advanced stage and kind of lay some of those concerns, I mean,

4 (3m 56s):
Look, look, I appreciate the question I get. I get it often, as you know and what I would say, and I've said this many times and many of my colleagues have said this, the president says this, if you watch him, if you've seen what he's done in the last two years, this is the president has had a historic administration in just two years. If you look at the 13 point, 13.5 more than 13.5 million jobs that he's been able to create, if you look at how he's been able to turn the economy around so that it works for middle class Americans,

0 (4m 26s):
Yeah, so avoid the question. Avoid the question. 'cause you can't say he's obviously vigorous because that's obviously untrue, right? She's pointing to quote unquote the accomplishments. Well, the truth is that that's gonna matter as much for Joe Biden as Donald Trump's accomplishments mattered for him in 2020. Donald Trump could have pointed to all the amazing things he did over the course of the first three years of his administration before 2020, and he did some of that, but in the end, people, you know, basically voted in a referendum on Donald Trump as a human and the same thing is going to happen to Joe Biden. And while she's out there saying that Joe Biden is with it, everything is fine. Joe Biden is like coughing into his hands and shaking hands with people and getting weirdly close with teenagers and just being a generalized elderly weirdo.

5 (5m 9s):
There

0 (5m 10s):
He goes, coughing into his hands, He keeps coughing over and over and over and then he just keeps, you know, shaking hands with the folks. We're all supposed to be very worried about covid, by the way, that's, that's something else that we'll get into in just one second. Meanwhile, the a hundred questions are not going away. The White House is gonna continue to ignore them. Corinne Jean Pierre, she, she was asked about Hunter Biden again because remember the plea deal broke down, which means that now presumably there should be an investigation into where Hunter Biden got all of his foreign money and whether he violated the Foreign Agent's Registration Act and if there's anybody worked their assault in this prosecutor's office, which you know, we will see. I have doubts. Then they have to ask the pretty obvious question, which is he was selling access to Joe.

0 (5m 50s):
What kind of access was that? Well, Karin Shapiro isn't gonna answer that question.

6 (5m 55s):
The Secret Service is paying $16,000 a month now to stage near Hunter Biden in Malibu. Who's paying for that?

4 (6m 2s):
That's a question for the Secret Service.

6 (6m 3s):
Okay. Hunter Biden is reportedly selling art to pay for his $15,800 a month rent in Malibu. How can you guarantee that people are not gonna be buying this art to gain favor with the president?

4 (6m 18s):
That is a question for Hunter Biden and his representatives. It's a question I know I hear, I hear, I think at the White House, we know that of

6 (6m 24s):
Fire got a job from the Biden administration. Can you guarantee that there's no,

4 (6m 29s):
I hear your question, I'm not going to get involved in this. That is a question for Hunter Biden's representatives, so

0 (6m 37s):
No it isn't. It's a question for Joe. So they're just gonna continue to not answer questions about Joe Biden being too old for the job and decrepit and bad at it. They're not gonna answer any questions about the fact that Hunter Biden is pretty obviously money laundering I mean it's pretty when you are selling paintings for $500,000 a piece and then people who buy those paintings are magically getting appointments to daddy's administration. That's a little weird, is it? Not? A little bit weird, but you won't answer any questions about that and it's gonna get worse for Joe Biden before it gets better. Kevin McCarthy apparently is gonna launch an impeachment inquiry in September. According to Breitbart, McCarthy has initiated strategies to open a sweeping impeachment inquiry into Biden to uncover the depth of his involvement in his family's foreign dealings. According to multiple Republican sources, they told C N n McCarthy previously demanded that Biden come clean about his involvement.

0 (7m 20s):
The president has continued to stonewall and lie about his family's business over 16 times. According to the House Oversight Committee, none of this is going away, and by the way, September is next month, like we are in the middle of it right now. We're about to hit in just a few days, all of this. So none of this is very good for Joe Biden and so he is pulling out some old standbys. Strategically speaking, we'll get to that momentarily

Innovation Refunds (7m 43s):
first. You've probably had a hard go of it If you've been a small business owner since Covid, it's been pretty Rough I mean between the federal government and state governments shutting you down, restricting you, taxing you and all the rest and you probably spent too much money on your taxes. Well, if you could get some of that money back, why would you not Go for it. Innovation Refunds has been helping small businesses that qualify get a business payroll tax refund through the employee retention credit or E R C. The E R C is a tax refund for businesses that kept employees on payroll for parts of 2020 and 2021. If you own a business with more than five employees, you could have money waiting to be claimed. The E R C tax filing is complex. Innovation Refunds is dedicated to helping business owners navigate that process. Their survey research shows a large number of small businesses that had from five to 500 full-time employees in 2020 or 2021 might be eligible for an E R C tax deduction. Qualifying for the E R C goes beyond the sales decline. If your business faced challenges to growth, it would've had without pandemic government orders. It could be eligible for a substantial refund as well. Innovation Refunds doesn't do tax or legal advice. They work with an independent network of tax professionals. They share information with them to evaluate and process your claims. Head over to Innovation Refunds dot com to determine eligibility. If you qualify, you could be on your way to receiving cash for your business. There's no upfront charge. They don't get paid unless you get paid nothing to lose. Go to Innovation Refunds dot com or dial 1 8 4 3 Refunds, that's Innovation Refunds dot com or 1 8 4 3 Refunds terms and conditions do apply.

0 (8m 59s):
Okay, so when cursed by an unpopular candidate, Democrats go back to the well and in that playbook over the past several years, they've had two big plays. Play number one, all of our opponents are racists. So they're now attempting to use this playbook with regards to this horrific shooting in Jacksonville where a, a person who's on like a 72 hour mental hold a couple of years ago. So obviously somebody with, with some pretty significant emotional problems and also happened to be a neo-Nazi, like put a bunch of swastikas on his gun and then went to a Dollar General and shot three black people. Horrifying story. Ron DeSantis showed up in town in order to pay tribute to those people and pledge to help out the local community and all of the rest.

0 (9m 40s):
And the Democrats and the media immediately spun this into yet another story of evil Republican white racists. So it was people like Ron DeSantis who caused some nut jobs to pull the trigger on black people. Steve Peoples, who is the chief political reporter for the ap, who he should be fired for this tweet. Honestly, like if if they have any level of objectivity whatsoever, he should be fired for this tweet quote Ron DeSantis scoffed when the NAACP issued a travel advisory this spring warning black people to use extreme care of traveling to Florida just three months later, DeSantis is leading his state through the aftermath of a racist attack. Left three African Americans dead black leaders in Florida and across the nation say they're outraged by his actions in rhetoric ahead of the shooting. My story with Brendan Farrington, okay, this is absurd coverage. That's absurd coverage. So because Ron DeSantis and his school board said that they were gonna put together an educational curriculum free of critical race theory, which is not in fact history, it is a bunch of anti-American propaganda.

0 (10m 31s):
And because they did that, apparently there was a neo-Nazi who shot three black people in the state of Florida and Ron DeSantis is responsible for that according to Steve Peoples and the Associated Press, which is an insane take, but it al it is also the take that Democrats are going to start using So here is the NAACP Jacksonville president Isaiah Rolin saying that the white supremacy in Florida is palpable. That's why you see Trump flags. So any state in America that voted for Trump apparently is a hellhole for black people.

7 (11m 1s):
Jacksonville specifically is a, a breeding ground of neo nazim that they have been tracking this and seeing this I mean. What can you tell me and tell us about the climate there in Jacksonville with these hate groups?

9 (11m 18s):
Well, I, I think the federal government and the Justice Department gonna have to do a better job and, and exercising exactly where these hate groups exist. I mean we see these confederate signs, we see the Trump signs constantly on our street, on our streets, and we know from that standpoint that that's hatred and we just gonna have to deal with it some kind of way.

0 (11m 49s):
Okay? That is, that is amazing. So if you see a Trump flag, anybody who voted for Trump or who has supported Trump is obviously a racist, right? This is how Joe Biden is going to run, whether it's against DeSantis or whether it's against Trump. The the rip is always and forever going to be that if you are not in line with Joe Biden's political priorities or the political priorities of the left, then you must be in favor of black people getting shot. Charlemagne, the God who is some sort of podcast host don't really know his show particularly well. I think he's the Breakfast Club. Is that, is that Charlamagne? Anyway, he also is, is doing this routine suggesting that Ron DeSantis fueled the anti-blackness. Now do they have any evidence of this? Of course not, but they don't need evidence, they just need the accusation.

10 (12m 27s):
I hate using woke terms like anti-anything, but yeah, Ron DeSantis has absolutely fueled a lot of anti-blackness in Florida. So yeah, he deserves a lot of that smoke.

0 (12m 37s):
He deserves a lot of that smoke. It was Ron DeSantis who's responsible for all this. So I have a question. When a crap load of black people get shot every weekend in Chicago, who's fueling that, he's fueling that. Do we talk about that? No, we shouldn't. We probably shouldn't talk about any of that because some black people getting shot is useful for the media narrative and some black people getting shot is not useful for the media narrative. So we only cover the shootings that are useful for a manufactured media narrative where by the way, we're on the right side of this I mean, again, name me, the mainstream politician anywhere in America who is in favor of black people randomly getting shot on on the basis of race. It's totally an insane accusation, but again, it plays back into how Joe Biden hopes to win an outsized share of minority voters, particularly black voters.

Cynch (13m 20s):
We'll get into that momentarily first. Have you ever craved a nice barbecue meal with the family? I use the barbecue like all the time I head on out there in the evenings. Fire it up. There's nothing worse than you start to fire up that barbecue and your Propane tank is empty. It sucks. This is where Cinch comes in to save it the day. Cinch is a Propane grill tank home delivery service. They deliver Propane tanks directly to your door on your schedule. They don't require any long-term commitment or subscription. Plus delivery is completely contact free. You're not gonna have to wait around at home. Track the order on the Cinch app from anywhere, whether you're grilling for dinner, camping with your family or lighting up your patio heaters on a cold night. Cinch Propane delivery service ensures you have the fuel you need to make the most of every single moment. Go to cinch.com or Download the Cinch app, use promo code Shapiro, get your first tank exchange for just 10 bucks. That's C Y N C h.com promo code Shapiro. They make it super simple. Again, there's nothing worse than you're firing up that grill and you look at the Propane tank and it's empty and now you gotta wait like half an hour, 45 minutes an hour. You gotta drive out. See if they even have a Propane tank all don't do that. Go to Cinch. There's a limited time offer. You must live within a cinch service area to redeem it. Visit cinch.com/offer for details.

10 (14m 22s):
Okay, so again, this all ties into Joe Biden's reelect effort. So yesterday he spent an awful lot of time sounding off about white supremacy as the greatest threat to the American homeland, which I gotta tell you, white supremacy is tremendously evil. I know because I receive an enormous number of death threats from people who white Supremacist because I'm an Orthodox Jew and the F B I has literally arrested people who are white supremacists for threatening my family.

0 (14m 48s):
Also, the notion that the greatest terrorist threat to America is isolated white supremacists is, is lunacy in terms of what the federal government can do. Like what exactly is the federal government also supposed to do about that? Presumably this is all tied into a broader I agenda item for for Biden as we'll see in a moment,

11 (15m 10s):
The intelligence community is determined. The US intelligence community is determined that domestic terrorism rooted in white supremacy is the greatest terrorist threat we face in the homeland. The greatest threat,

0 (15m 22s):
Okay, by the way, he was also a jabbering about his history with civil rights, which is a little bit more checkered than he likes to make it out to be But. here he was jabbering nonsensically about how he got Strom Thurman to vote for the Civil Rights Act, which is weird since he was 21 when the Civil Rights Act passed and Strom Thurman, I believe, delivered the longest filibuster to date against the Civil Rights Act at the time, which so strange, strange story here from an adult old man,

11 (15m 46s):
I thought things had changed. I was able to literally not figuratively talk Strom Thurmond, the voting for the the Civil Rights Act before he died. And I thought, well, maybe there's real progress, but hate never dies. It just hides

0 (16m 3s):
And don don't know what he's talking about. But all this is tied into the broader Biden agenda of equity and everything. So here's top Biden advisor, Steve Benjamin yesterday. He's a senior advisor and director of the Office of Public Engagement talking about how equity is at the center of everything the Biden administration does. When they say equity, what they really mean is racial preferences.

12 (16m 21s):
The administration has since day one, since the president signed his first executive order on making sure that everything we've done is focused on, on equity in this administration.

0 (16m 32s):
Okay? It's, yeah, so that that's part of the broader agenda item. Now, the real answer to what happened in Jacksonville actually comes courtesy of a democratic Jacksonville co councilman named Jacoby Pittman. We talked about her yesterday. She's the person who got up when DeSantis got booed for visiting Jacksonville, and she said, listen, bullets don't have parties on them. Absolutely correct. Here she was yesterday saying DeSantis wasn't invited, but there's no reason for him to be booed.

13 (16m 56s):
The governor was getting heckled and you stood up to essentially quiet those people down. Yet councilwoman, there are critics who say that Florida's governor has enacted policies that created an environment that allowed this kind of attack to take place, whether on guns or on race. What's your response to those critics?

14 (17m 20s):
Well, first of all, let me make myself clear, I had no idea that the governor was coming and so I just want to make myself clear. I wanted the audience to calm down because I wanted him to sit down and I wanted it to be the event that was for the residents and the community that had come together for Unity. That's what that event was about, not the governor.

0 (17m 51s):
Okay, well, she's right about that, and DeSantis knew that too. So I mean that would be the proper response to, you know, a racial shooting where everybody of any sort of goodwill is on the same side. I mean, again, I'm, who is arguing in favor of the shooter In this particular situation, the answer is nobody but the media have to manufacture some sort of narrative for Joe Biden to run on. And so the, the narrative of the day is going to be Republicans are racist. You knew it was going in this direction. Meanwhile, Democrats are actually going to try to run on Covid again. This is starting anew, which is amazing. Covid is such a devastating disease that it arises every election cycle. It's pretty incredible. Yesterday, Corin Jean-Pierre, she pointed out that we have rising covid numbers. By the way, those rising covid numbers are not resulting in mass death across the nation. Those rising covid numbers are largely resulting in people getting colds.

0 (18m 33s):
Here she was suggesting people continue to be vaccinated with their 97th booster shot.

4 (18m 39s):
We are going to encourage Americans to get their updated C Ovid 19 vaccine in addition to their annual flu shot. Let's not forget that is important for Americans to get and an R S V immunization for people over 60 and for infants. That is something that we're going to continue to make very clear to Americans across, across the country.

0 (18m 60s):
Okay, really this is what we're doing this routine again, the answer apparently is yes. According to C B SS news, as doctors warn Covid is on the rise. Some Northern California hospitals are bringing back an old Covid 19 requirement mask mandates the current spike is being blamed on summer travel with more people staying indoors to avoid the brutal heat. Nowadays, very few people wear masks, but now apparently there are a bunch of health facilities that are going to put the masks back in place in California, you've seen some universities across the country already establishing mask mandates for people to return to school. All this is crazy. Meanwhile, the New York Times is suggesting that in order for schools to reopen, you have to install some sort of clean air apparatus quote on a Sunday afternoon in a cluttered music room at East High in Denver, two sophomores practiced violin while their music teacher Keith Oxman labored over a desk in an adjoining office.

0 (19m 46s):
The ceiling fans were off to prevent the sheet music from scattering. The windows were sealed shut. East High is Denver's largest high school and among the oldest, and there is no modern ventilation system. Woohoo, wow. The windows wouldn't open. And so the idea here is that we're gonna have to spend, you know, probably billions of dollars in order to establish better ventilation systems in schools, less the children get the covid. Again, reminder, very, very, very few people under the age of 18 in the United States actually died of covid by C D C statistics. That is inarguable. They they want $200 billion that was included in the American Rescue Plan, another $350 billion allotted to state and local governments to be used for ventilation in schools.

0 (20m 27s):
All of this, the predicate to possible future shutdowns. And you can see by the way, the predicate being set by people like Medi Hassan over at M S N B C. So one of the things we know from the pandemic is that it absolutely devastating school, it, it destroyed school learning. This is Brookings Institute, Brookings Institute quote, as we reached the two year mark of the initial wave of of pandemic induced school shutdowns. Academic normalcy remains out of reach for many students, educators, and parents. This from March of 2022, as we outlined in our new research study released in January, the cumulative impact of the Covid to 19 pandemic on students' academic achievement has been large. We track changes in math and reading test scores across the first two years of the pandemic, using data from 5.4 million US students in grades three through eight. Average fall 2021 math test scores in grades three through eight were 0.2 to 0.27 standard deviations lower relative to same grade peers.

0 (21m 14s):
In fall 2019 reading test scores were down 0.09 to 0.18 standard deviations lower. The math drops were significantly larger than estimated impacts from other large scale school disruptions, including Hurricane Katrina and test scores increased between students in low poverty and high poverty elementary schools. But don't worry, Democrats are gonna try to talk you into the possibility of more school lockdowns. Now apparently I, I don't know why they would run on this, but apparently they think that it might be a good strategy. It gets to that momentarily first, The Ben Shapiro Show is supported by Grand Canyon University, an affordable private Christian university with a vibrant campus in beautiful Phoenix, Arizona that's ranked the top 20 in the country. According to niche.com, GCU U is a missional Christ-centered university that strives to foster a culture of community giving and impact.

0 (21m 57s):
GCU U'S goal is to help you develop into a servant leader who makes a difference through finding a purpose and fulfilling God's plan. With 330 academic programs over 270 online, as of June, 2023, G C U integrates the free market system with a welcoming Christian worldview into your bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree. You'll have support from your own university counselor who takes a personalized approach to helping you achieve your goals. I've been to gcu, it's gorgeous over there. Go check them out right now. Find your purpose at GCU u Grand. Canyon University private Christian affordable. Visit gcu.edu today. Okay, so Medi Hassan, he's trying already to lead, pave the groundwork for the possibility of more school shutdowns. Here he was yesterday claiming it's a myth. It's a myth that there was any problem in the classroom.

15 (22m 34s):
Today I want to address this thorny and very emotive issue of kids schools and covid because we have seen a blatant and bad faith rewriting of history on this issue from a lot of people who should know better. And so I think this today what you're about to watch is one of the most important deep dives I've ever done on This show because the myths about children and covid that kids aren't really harmed by it. That school closures were a massive and avoidable mistake that they caused learning loss and mental health issues. Those myths and they are myths, dangerous myths have endured for so long become so ingrained, so pervasive that they're not just something Fox viewers believe. I'm sure many of you watching at home have sadly come to accept many of these myths as true.

0 (23m 19s):
It's a myth guys, everything about the learning loss, not a myth or mental health problems with kids who are staying home, not a myth, right? All, all that's a myth according to Medi Hasa. So get ready for it. As covid upticks going into the winter, you're gonna watch some Democrats come out again for this sort of thing, which is a hell of a thing to run on. So you're gonna run basically 2020 back, they're gonna run on Covid lockdowns and they're gonna run on race. Well, good luck to them on that. That does not seem like a winning strategy to me. But meanwhile, on the other side of the aisle, the Democrats in the judiciary are doing an amazing job of setting up the calendar in favor of Donald Trump. So apparently the trial in the January 6th indictment in Washington DC is slated to start on March 4th.

0 (23m 59s):
That is one day before Super Tuesday, so that's weird. That's super weird. Trump's allies lambasted the timing of the trial, which US district judge Tanya Chut. Ken announced after rejecting both an expedited timeline from special counsel Jack Smith and a request from Trump's lawyers to delay the trial until 2026, Ohio Senator j d van stubbed it straight up election interference says you're starting the trial the day before the biggest primary day. It's called Super Tuesday for a reason. It's the biggest day of the primaries. That's when you start the trial. Trump said that he's going to try to appeal on the basis of this. It's not clear if he's gonna show up to court. The truth is that this is probably gonna boost Trump because if the dynamics of the race so far are a reflection of what's gonna happen in the future, every time Trump is targeted in court, it seems to boost him electorally.

0 (24m 42s):
But if you look at how this calendar is setting up right now, it's pretty wild. Okay? Right now you have March 4th, the day before Super Tuesday for the, for the Trump January 6th trial. And then you have the fraud suit brought by New York Attorney General Letitia James, that's gonna go to trial this October 2nd. Then you have the defamation lawsuit that is gonna go to trial on January 15th, 2024. That is the date of the Iowa Republican Presidential Caucus. You've got the hush money criminal case brought by Manhattan DA Alvin Bragg. That's the garbage case in Manhattan about Stormy Daniels and such. That's gonna go to trial March 25th. That is the middle of the primaries. And then you have the documents case against Trump and two of a and two of his aides.

0 (25m 23s):
That date is set to begin May 20th in Florida. There's a bunch of primaries right around that one and we don't know when the Georgia case is going to come to trial either. So yeah, I mean it's just going to be trials from here on in. It's just gonna be trials from for for the rest of the election cycle. President Trump has responded. How do you have an indictment that is based almost entirely on the findings of the January 6th unselect committee on Marxists fascists and political hacks when these same low lives who have been caught lying for years about Russia, Russia, Russia, Ukraine, Ukraine, Ukraine, fssa, and the fake dossier and more purposefully and illegally destroyed and deleted all the evidence, findings, and proof of the January 6th committee. When will RA Shak Smith criminally charge the committee? Well, yeah, again, that's not going to happen, but he is not wrong to complain about the date.

0 (26m 6s):
Is any of that going to help Trump in a general election? I keep asking this question because this is the question for Republican primary voters not, are you more warmed to him now that he's being unfairly targeted by law enforcement? I'm more warmed to him if he's being unfairly targeted by law enforcement. But that's really not the question. The question is whether this is going to help Trump in a general election. Trump meanwhile is focused laser-like on a rumor about Ron DeSantis. By rumor we mean R O O M E R I don don't even know what's happening right now. Rumor are strong in political circles that run to sanctimonious. His presidential run is a shambo whose poll numbers have absolutely crashed putting him third and forth in some states we'll be dropping outta the presidential race running around in Florida against Rich Scott for Senate.

0 (26m 48s):
Now that's an interesting one, isn't it? He put that out on true social yesterday. I had not heard that rumor. R O O M E R. I had not in fact heard that rumor because it's not true. But you know, if this is where Republicans choose to not like this is where you want your focus. Alright, yeah, Tim Scott, who I think is gonna be outta the race fairly soon because he doesn't have an electricity, he doesn't have any base support, he doesn't have any momentum, but he said something true yesterday, he said, listen, tough and loud is not going to be enough to win a general election. That's true.

16 (27m 20s):
I I think sometimes people mistake decency and kindness for a lack of resolve. Sometimes people confused fighting with being cruel. Is there a place for a happy warrior warrior in modern day politics? Can you be a rule follower, be fair in your critiques and still be successful in politics?

17 (27m 44s):
Oh absolutely. You can certainly, as you know Trey, I, I grew up in some really tough neighborhoods. You've gotta be tough to get out of the neighborhoods that I grew up in. The question I keep asking myself is tough enough and for the Republican party the answer's really clear. We've lost seven out of the, the last eight national elections and 2022 was a disaster. If tough and loud was enough, we'd be winning election after election after election. But our results have unfortunately been exactly the opposite.

0 (28m 18s):
He is right about that, which is why I think actually again, there are a lot of people who wrote off Governor DeSantis for dead in this national race. I don't see the evidence that he's dead quite yet. The Latest polling shows Donald Trump in the Republican nominating race dropping now below 50% in some of the numbers by the Latest Insider Advantage Poll for example, has Trump at 45 and DeSantis at 18 and nobody else with an even remote spitting distance. There's some other polls that have Trump up near 60 messenger, Harris X, which has been a poll that's very, very warm toward, Trump currently has Trump at 59 and DeSantis at 14. Overall, Trump is ahead of the field by 40 points. It also happens to be a very fragmented field. But with that said, DeSantis, if what you think is that tough and loud isn't enough, but you, you do need tough, right?

0 (29m 0s):
And you do need to be able to kick back, but you also need to be able to govern. DeSantis is gonna get an opportunity to show that off this weekend. It's a terrible opportunity. Obviously there's this hurricane that's about to hit the panhandle of Florida. According to the Latest reports that hurricane could come in at possibly a, a Cat three. It did, maybe even, even maybe, maybe even a Cat four. AccuWeather meteorologists are rating Adalia as a three on the real impact scale for hurricanes right now. And officials have issued mandatory evacuation orders for parts of Pinellas and Hillsborough County in Florida because of the life-threatening conditions anticipated, you're gonna see a big storm surge and all the rest. Well this is one area where DeSantis actually thrives is in handling crisis in his home state.

0 (29m 42s):
We've seen it before. Here was Governor DeSantis doing his job yesterday talking about the approaching storm.

18 (29m 49s):
Tropical storm. Ilia continues to gather strength. It will become a hurricane today and it is forecast to reach landfall as a major hurricane a category three. I think it's important to point out, if we were sitting here three days ago, a lot of people thought it would end up being a tropical storm. Then they said, well maybe a category one. Then yesterday it was, oh maybe it'll hit cat two. Now there really doesn't seem anything to prevent it from continuing to strengthen and we've seen this before with something like Hurricane Michael that continued to gather strength. So, so this is gonna be a, a major impact and Floridians should expect that this, this storm will be a major cat three plus hurricane.

0 (30m 34s):
Okay? The truth is that it was DeSantis crisis leadership during Covid that was really, really excellent and he's gonna give an example of how to do that. I would assume this week and this weekend yesterday. This is also a perfect example of what DeSantis does really, really well, right? So DeSantis was asked by a reporter about climate change, which is always the go-to for idiot reporters who don't know about hurricanes and, and how hurricane targets have now expanded. 'cause there are a lot more people living in the path of hurricanes and all the rest of it and, and they keep suggesting hurricanes are more common because of all, again, not a lot of evidence to suggest that there's some evidence to suggest that the hurricanes may be more powerful now because of the warmer water that they're using to churn. Essentially But here was DeSantis being asked about climate change on the hurricanes and he knows what he's talking about.

0 (31m 18s):
This is where, this is where DeSantis is a unique character and very fluid. He was true with Covid. I remember the first time I had talked with Governor DeSantis, I had talked to him when he was a congressperson, but when he was governor was in June of 2020 and he called because he wanted to lay out his covid strategy. And his fluency with the numbers was obvious. He had actually spent a lot of time with the data. Here's a perfect example of him knowing things.

19 (31m 38s):
This is a storm that's really quickly intensifying more than originally planned, and it's going into the gulf, which, you know, many scientists say that it's the warm wa water contributed by climate change is really intensifying these storms. What do you think is contributing to this? Well,

18 (31m 54s):
I think it's I mean. You know, unfortunately I mean, I see a lot of parallels with Hurricane Michael. Hurricane Michael, if you remember few days before we knew there would be a storm, nobody was saying that it was gonna be a category five storm I mean that just was not what people were saying and then it intensified and that it delivered a major, major impact to, to northwest Florida that we're still recovering from.

0 (32m 18s):
Hey again. He, he then went into a longer speech going through like the history of hurricanes. This is the thing that Desant is good at, is the actual governing. Whether that's gonna make a difference in the Republican primaries, unclear whether it should absolutely 'cause you wanna win over Democrats and independents. It turns out being good at your job is one of the things that makes you a better candidate than not being particularly good at your job or not being involved in your job. In just one second, we'll get you some more colorful areas of the 2024 campaign. First, I gotta tell you about something back in like 2013, so back in 2013, I used to do a local radio show. It's like a group radio show in Los Angeles

Genucel (32m 51s):
and one of our first advertisers was a company called Genucel. And they were making these products for, for your face they're making to get rid of like the bags under your eyes and, and make your skin look younger. And I started using them, my wife started using, my mom started using 'em at that time. That was like a decade ago. We've been using them pretty consistently ever since because that's how good the product is, even when they weren't advertising with the show. Well, when you look in the mirror, do you see that arc spots? Well, they're not gonna go away on their own. You need help the way our family did from genus cell's, dark spot corrector here just in time for the summer. The dark spot corrector has not won, but three cutting edge ingredients. It goes to work fast on sun spots, dark spots, liver spots, even old discoloration, both on your face and your hands. You'll be amazed at how fast you see the results. You can enjoy Summer Sun Beach and barbecues without those embarrassing spots. Most importantly, you have nothing to lose because you either see the results, you get your money back, no questions asked. Three of genu sell's. Most popular products are included in Genu Sell's most popular package for August, get your Genucel bags and puffiness serum also included for 70% off retail. Head on over to genelle.com/ Shapiro right now. Get your dark spot corrector with the new genus most popular package. Say goodbyes to those pesky spots tomorrow. They're offering free shipping, free your returns best luxury skincare you've ever used. All at 70% off all orders will also include a mystery luxury gift while supplies last. A great product, go check them out right now, genus sell.com/ Shapiro.

Daily Wire (34m 4s):
Also, Dr. Jordan B. Peterson, when he joined DailyWire Plus, we decided we're gonna blow it out and we did. We have a year of unparalleled output, tons of Jordan Peterson material over at DailyWire. Plus we have a vast array capturing hundreds of hours of awesome content you're not gonna find anywhere else. Jordan has created thought provoking works that reshape your perspective on life. Those include vision and destiny, marriage dragons and monsters and men. Additionally, you can immerse yourself in discussions. Then nurture your spiritual side. We're talking logos and literacy or Jordan's groundbreaking series on the book of Exodus. That's only the beginning. We haven't even talked about his lecture series or his extensive archives of lectures and podcasts. It's the Absolute compendium of all thing Jordan related. Plus there's even more new awesome content on the horizon. Lots more coming. Head over to DailyWire Plus right now and subscribe. That's DailyWire dot com slash subscribe. Become a member today.

0 (34m 50s):
Okay, meanwhile, stupidest story of the day from the campaign trail. Eminem is apparently very angry. Vive Rames Swami. Why? Well, because Vivek, as you recall, he's at the Iowa caucuses and he, and he wrapped his tune on the campaign trail. There's a lot of, like, Vivek is, is millennial, I believe, just technically speaking, but this is a real boomer energy because Eminem's lose yourself, I believe came out in 2002. So this is a 21 year old song, which you know, honestly is the equivalent of this point of, of singing a Doobie Brothers song. And, and here is, here is Vive on the campaign trail.

20 (35m 22s):
He opens his mouth, but the words won't come out. He's joking. Half everybody's

0 (35m 26s):
Joking. Look at all the people in Iowa like, what is happening?

20 (35m 30s):
Oh, snap back to reality. Oh, there ghost gravity. Oh, there ghost gravity choke. He's so mad

0 (35m 36s):
Won. One thing you have to say from Vegas, at least he's having fun.

20 (35m 39s):
It don't matter these rope, it don't matter. He's, he don't matter with these rope. He's so sad that

0 (35m 45s):
He and Kim Reynolds is standing there like what is happening right now? She's standing on the corner of the stage like don don't, like why is this happening? Why is this thing that's happening? What is happening? That is, that is so, wow. The the levels of cringe are just astounding. I know this because I've done a few cringe things in my career. You may have noticed I believe that in a cringe off Vive wins hands down. In any case, all of that's fine and all of that's just stupid campaign tricks. That's, that's all fine. Eminem literally wrote a letter to Vivek Ramas Swami threatening him with legal action. He sent a letter to Vivek's lawyer, quote, this letter serves as notice to you pursuant to B m i music license for political entities or organizations entered into by B M I and VIKK 2024.

0 (36m 30s):
That b m I has received a communication from Marshall b Mathers the third, professionally known as Eminem, objecting to the varo swami campaign's use of Eminem's musical compositions and requesting that b m I remove all Eminem works from the agreement. So Eminem works are excluded from an agreement. So apparently Viva's team had an agreement with B M I to use some of their music and Eminem wrote to b m I was like, don don't want that terrible man using my music. You're right. Only only people who shoot each other and do drugs should be able to use Eminem music from now on. I'm just like, I I'm it. It's so tiresome. Honestly, all these music, I am above all what is Eminem above exactly. Seriously? What, like what is Eminem's personal history?

0 (37m 10s):
They're like this man, this is a man of moral rectitude whose music my, for god's sake. We use Bach in like, in like Cheezit commercials. We usually, we literally the Cheezit commercials, it wasn't Bach, it was Edvard Greig, okay. We used Beethoven's fifth symphony for selling like cat litter. Like what? What? Come on Eminem. It's just ridiculous, ridiculous crap. Okay, speaking of other ridiculous crap, Pope Francis is a terrible pope, so just gonna put that out there. He's really bad at the Poping. Now, I don't have any stake obviously in in the Catholic doctrine of, of Pope Francis. I was a big fan of Benedict. I thought Benedict was an excellent pope because I do have a stake as a citizen of the western world in the Catholic church actually standing true to its historic religious principles when it comes to morality and ethics because they've shaped billions of people over the course of history.

0 (38m 2s):
Pope Francis is a liberation theologist pretty obviously. He, he is a, he is a person with a, a Marxist orientation toward economics and a real, a real disdain for sort of traditional Catholicism in terms of social areas. I mean, I can't tell you how many times at this point Pope Francis has said something that is in violation of church doctrine historically with regard to say divorce or gay marriage or any of that sort of stuff. And then his team comes out, oh, he was misinterpreted, you just don't speak Italian. Well, well at a certain point you gotta imagine that maybe he's just the guy we all kind of think he is. Which is why the left is very warm toward Pope Francis. He made a couple of big boo boos over the last 48 hours.

0 (38m 44s):
So first he was speaking by video to a gathering of Roman Catholic used in St. Petersburg and he urged them to follow in the path of Peter the Great and Catherine the great whom he called rulers of a great enlightened empire of great culture and great humanity, which is a weird take since both Peter and Katherine were wild, territorial expansionists. It is what they're known for and they're also the two figures that Vladimir Putin most cites as sort of historical inspirations for his territorial aggressions. This of course has ticked off pretty much everybody in Ukraine. Ole Nicole Engel, a spokesman for the Ukrainian foreign ministry called the Pope's War's imperialist propaganda of the kind that Kremlin uses to justify its invasion of Ukraine. It is a shame that Russian great power ideas, which are actually the cause of Russia's chronic aggressiveness are voiced knowingly they or not by the pope, the leader of the Ukraine's Greek Catholic church made Archbishop vie chv.

0 (39m 32s):
Chuck said in a statement the Pope's wars had caused great pain in the church hierarchy and great disappointment in Ukrainian civil society. The Pope's remarks drew angry reactions on social media from a wide variety of sources and then the, and then of course the Vatican tried to walk it back as they've had to do with, with Pope Francis multiple times. They rejected suggestions. The Pope Francis might've encouraged young Russian Catholics to draw inspiration from historical Russian figures known for imperialistic and expansionist ideas and actions that negatively impacted neighboring populations, including the Ukrainian people. Francis has decried Ukrainian suffering, but he has not condemned Moscow for the war. He's been very careful not to condemn Moscow for the war.

0 (40m 12s):
And by the way, it is, it is worthwhile noting that his relationship with the Catholic church was pretty fraught. Peter the great, his relationship with the Catholic church was actually fairly fraught. It was not the easiest relationship. So that is boo boo number one for the Pope boo boo. Number two is that apparently the Pope has now blasted the quote backwardness of some conservatives in the US Catholic Church saying they have replaced faith with ideology. He's one to talk I mean seriously, honest to God. You wanna talk about a pope who's replaced faith with ideology. He keeps writing in cyclicals about how we have to stop hurting Mother Earth while at the same time proclaiming the doctrine of social liberalism in very soft form. Francis Cums were an acknowledgement of the divisions in the US Catholic Church, which has been split between progressives and conservatives who long found support in the Trinary papers.

0 (40m 58s):
Papacy of St. John Paul II and Benedict the 16th, particularly on issues of abortion and same sex marriage like even the AP knows like yeah, conservatives liked Pa Paul, John Paul two, and Benedict 16. They liked those guys because you know, they actually hued to historic Catholic doctrine on morality. This guy, he's creative. When you're Barack Obama's favorite pope, there's something wrong. Many conservatives have blasted France's emphasis on social justice issues such as the environment and the poor while branding heretical his opening to letting divorced and civilly remarried Catholics receive the sacraments, which you know, that used to be called just the doctrine. So during a meeting, a Portuguese Jesuit told Francis he had suffered during a recent sabbatical year in the United States because he came across many Catholics, including some US bishops who criticized Francis' tenure Papacy as today as well as today's Jesuits.

0 (41m 44s):
The 86 year old Argentine acknowledged his point saying there was a very strong, organized, reactionary attitude in the US church, which he called backward. He said, doing this, you lose the true tradition, you turn to ideologies to have support. In other words, ideologies replace faith. The vision of the doctrine of the church as a monolith is wrong. When you go backward, you make something closed off, disconnected from the roots of the church. Wait, hold on. When you go backwards, you're disconnecting from the roots of the church. I noticed that when you're reflecting the political priorities of far left figures in Latin America as well as the United States, you might be moving away from the roots of the church. He says, I want to remind these people, backwardness is useless. I gotta tell you, like for the Pope to say, when he says backwardness, I assume what he means is you know the history of his church, which is supposed to be the rock of faith.

0 (42m 28s):
Correct? Again, not a Catholic, but pretty sure that's what it is. They must understand there's a correct evolution in the understanding of questions and faith and morals. Oh, interesting. There's a correct evolution in faith and morals, which is, which is that he also said it was an honor to be attacked by Americans at some point. So yeah, you by, by the way, worth noting, the only segments of Catholicism on planet earth that are growing right now are not left-leaning Catholic churches. They're all right-leaning Catholic churches. They're people who are traditionalists. It's the Latin mass Catholic churches that are still full. It's the ones who are, who are moving softly toward embracing the Popes own soft embrace of social leftism that are emptying out by the bushel.

0 (43m 9s):
Because why would you bother going to church on a Sunday if you can hear the same crap on M S N bbc? It really is amazing. Okay, time for some quick things I like and then some things that I hate. So things that I like today, Thomas Sowell, he continues to churn out books. I mean you wanna talk about somebody who is totally with it. Thomas Sowell is currently 93 years old. He's 93, okay. Joe Biden can't even walk. Joe Biden is 80. Thomas o is 13 years older than Joe Biden, 13 years older and he's still churning up books that are great. So he just put out another one called Social Justice Fallacies. It's a series of essays on the failures of social justice and he goes into why it is that inequality is not inequity. Why group differences are not always attributable to discrimination and they're not always attributable by allergy either.

0 (43m 53s):
Sometimes it's due to environment or geography or culture. The book is great, very clearly thought as always from from Dr. Sol, really good stuff. Social justice fallacies Thomas. So I literally have like in my library, it's all of Thomas o's books like I Thomas o one of the great thinkers of of the last 50 years in the United States, and it is a pleasure whenever he brings out a new book, okay, time for some things that I hate. And so Alice Cooper has now been canceled by a cosmetics firm after he said that he shouldn't chop the genitals off small children. According to the New York Post, Alice Cooper, the eyeliner wearing godfather of shock rock was dumped by a cosmetics company after the singer questioned the rush to perform trans surgeries on kids and said transitioning genders was a fad.

0 (44m 38s):
The 75 year old rock legend whose hits include schools out and welcomed my nightmare had signed the brand partnership deal less than two weeks ago with Vampire Cosmetics, which market spooky and gothic themed makeups, lipsticks, pallets, and lashes. But Cooper was canceled because he expressed opposition to gender affirming care for minors. In an interview with a site called Stereogum, he said, I'm understanding there are cases of transgender, I'm afraid it's also a fad. I'm afraid there's a lot of people claiming to be this just because they wanna be that. He said, I find it wrong when you've got a six year old kid who has no idea, he just wants to play and you're confusing him telling me, yeah, you're a boy, but you could be a girl if you wanna be. He said, I think that's confusing to a kid. It's even confusing to a teenager. You're still trying to find your identity. Here's this thing going on saying, yeah, but you can be anything you want. You can be a cat if you wanna be I mean. If you identify as a train, I'm going, wait, what are we in a Kurt Gant novel?

0 (45m 20s):
It's so absurd. It's gone to the point of absurdity. And then he blasted the woke. Jenny said, who's making the rules? Is there a building somewhere in New York where people sit down every day and say, okay, we can't say mother now we have to say birthing person. Get that out on the Wire right now. Who's making these rules? I don't get it. So vampire is upset and they decided that they're going to cut ties with Alice Cooper for saying things that are obviously true. Vampire cosmetics described itself as proudly women owned, disabled owned, and plus divided by sign owned and a company whose products are vegan, cruelty-free and talc free. We are queer, disabled, and proudly neuro women working around the clock to bring you cosmetics so uniquely packaged. You excl explain. Holy crap when you see it said Karen Holton, the managing owner of the company.

0 (45m 60s):
Okay, fine. So you have a, a fundamental disconnect between Alice Cooper saying rational things and an ownership that is irrational. That's fine. They have a brand disagreement and they're willing to make that brand disagreement public. But he is saying stuff that is so perfectly obvious to anyone with a functional brain that it is beyond dispute. The fact that it's even remotely controversial in today's day and age is absurd. Okay, other things that I hate, so Jake Tapper did an interview with Chris Christie the other day, and Christie has been ripping on other Republicans for saying that in a binary election between Biden and Trump, they would vote for Trump and Tapper then asked him a question that a lot of people in the left-leaning media are constantly asking, which is, do Republicans have an authoritarian problem? Now let me first explain authoritarianism is not what, what people in the left media think it's, they think authoritarianism is like Donald Trump tweeting things or Donald Trump making efforts that are then stymied to change the results of an election.

0 (46m 53s):
There are many forms of authoritarianism. In fact, fascism is an element of both left and right. It's not merely a right wing thing. Authoritarianism can just as easily be done by a series of executive orders that go outside the constitution and radically reshift the balance between people and their government. Joe Biden does that with alacrity. Here is Jake Tapper's answer. Jake Tapper asking the question and Chris Christie, you actually, you know, kind of gave not a horrible answer actually here

22 (47m 18s):
You, you do describe the conduct of Donald Trump trying to overturn the election as, as, as reprehensible you, you do condemn it. Yeah. But so many people in your party, and I'm not just talking about people running for President or on Capitol Hill, but I mean voters. Republican voters don't seem to have a problem with it. And I'm wondering, do you think that your party has an authoritarian problem, that they really, honestly don't have a problem with violently trying to stop a free and fair election from going, going forward?

23 (47m 59s):
No, Jake, I absolutely don't think that we have that problem. I think what we have is a Donald Trump problem, and that right now what's gone on is that people view Donald Trump synonymously with the Republican party. And that if you oppose Trump, that's somehow favoring Biden. And many Republicans don't want to do that for very obvious reasons.

0 (48m 19s):
Okay. So when he, that last part, the rest of it's garbage, but that last part, what he says, which is Donald Trump is seen as synonymous with the Republican party. And so if you tell people it's either Biden or the Republican party, of course a lot of people are gonna vote Republican. That part is true. But what's insulting to the intelligence is this generalized narrative that the media are constantly drawing in which they suggest that fascism or authoritarianism or tyranny is an element of the right, and that the left is completely free. That his hands are completely clean. It's obviously not true. In fact, we have a YouTube video, a Latest episode in our facts series talking about whether fascism is right wing, what are the roots of fascism. The truth is that fascism as an ideology is closer to the American left than it is to the American, right? Fascism is an ideology, was generalized a response to communism, but it drew from Marxism, it drew from Hegelian politics.

0 (49m 5s):
It drew from progressive era ideas, which is why many of the early supporters of Mussolini were members of the left, including people who had worked in the Woodrow Wilson administration who would go on to work in the f d administration. So, and again, this sort of media lie, which is that the right is universally authoritarian and the left is for freedom. I, I don't see any evidence of that whatsoever. Okay. In just a second, we're gonna jump into the mailbag. So head on over to DailyWire Plus and become a member right now. Get your question answered in the mailbag. Become that member Use Coach Shapiro checkout. Get two months free on all annual plans, and click the link in the description to join us.