0 (0s):
Kevin McCarthy is ousted from his position as Speaker of the House by the Republican circular firing squad. Trump's civil fraud trial continues and criminality spreads across America's major cities. I'm Bench Bureau. This is the Bench Bureau

ExpressVPN (10s):
show. Today's show is sponsored by Express VPN. Do you like your web history being seen and sold to advertisers? No. Me neither. Get ExpressVPN right now at ExpressVPN dot com slash bed

0 (24s):
So, what if I told you that the GOP had pretty much every systemic advantage going into 2024? They had a deeply unpopular president of the United States, the approval ratings in the high thirties, low forties, a, a president of the United States, the approval ratings on the economy in the thirties or twenties. What if I told you that the GOP had an economic edge on the issues that is their biggest since 1991? Well, what if I told you that going into the election there was a very solid shot that Joe Biden's economic policies were going to drive America directly into a recession? Well, all of those things are true. All of those things are true, and yet somehow Republicans have come up with a brand new strategy. This strategy is to join an Idiocracy. It's a movie from the two thousands.

0 (1m 5s):
Join in the Idiocracy Show al my balls. This is their actual strategy is just to kick themselves over and over in the balls until they win. I I cannot see any other strategy here. I I don't know why it's happening. It makes no sense to me. It is incredibly frustrating because I would like to see Joe Biden not be president of the United States. I'd like to see Democrats not make policy for the United States. I'd like Chuck Schumer not to be the Senate majority leader. And yet since Republican victory in 2016, Republicans have lost something like 11 governorships. Republicans have lost something like 20 plus house seats. Republicans have moved from a majority to a minority in the Senate, all in the face of wildly unpopular Democrat policies. The Democratic Party has moved to the radical left. They continue to mirror all the policies of the radical left.

0 (1m 45s):
The American people don't like them on any of the issues, and yet Democrats keep getting elected. And so the question becomes, why? Why would that be? Well, maybe the reason for that is because Republicans are strategically inept. Maybe it is because Republicans have essentially decided that protest votes are more important than actual votes. Maybe they've decided that dowsing themselves in gasoline and setting a match is, is probably the best strategy. I don't know what's strategy for other than maybe feeling good for a brief moment in time. Because if we show frustration to our leadership class, then for sure we'll Get a new leadership class and then somebody else enter and we're like, wait, hold on. The incentive structure's exactly the same. And Thomas so says very frequently with regard to politics that people's big mistake when it comes to politics is believing that the problem with the politicians is the politicians rather than the incentive structure that creates the politicians.

0 (2m 30s):
And that is exactly correct. Republicans have now replaced in the last few years. Paul Ryan is Speaker of the house. John Bainer is Speaker of the house. And now Kevin McCarthy is Speaker of the house. What has changed seriously? What has changed? What, what magical new things have happened from the replacement of any of these people as Speaker of the house? Now, I was not a Bayner fan. I didn't want Bayner to be Speaker of the house. I thought he was far too conciliatory toward Barack Obama. I thought Paul Ryan was fine. I thought Kevin McCarthy was fine. But apparently we tend to be operating under the wild delusion that if we simply replace one Speaker with another Speaker and leave the incentive structure exactly the same, then everything will be, you know, better things will change. That is not how any of this works. The incentive structure right now in the House of Representatives, just to take the latest example, because yesterday Kevin McCarthy was ousted as Speaker of the house for no reason.

0 (3m 13s):
I can discern by eight Republicans who joined with all Democrats to oust McCarthy, which means that 96% of the Republican caucus voted in favor of Kevin, McCarthy, and McCarthy is no longer the Speaker because of eight House Republicans who decided that McCarthy had to go for a reason that no one can actually discern or specify. The incentive structure right now, unfortunately, for a huge number of people is get famous, run for a higher office, win or lose. It doesn't really matter. Clean up, pick up some checks, start a pack, start a nonprofit, move into a different area of your career. This is a different incentive structure. It used to be when parties were more powerful that they'd actually have the ability to punish their members. Now, that was bad in some ways because it meant the party leadership actually mattered an awful lot because the party leadership could decide the direction of the party, and because of that, the party structure was weakened.

0 (4m 4s):
Well, the result of that is that there is a massive collective action problem whereby a few people can hold hostage the entire Republican caucus for no reason that anyone can, can explain again, in order to really understand how dumb all of this is. What you have to understand is that Kevin McCarthy was by pretty much any measure, the most conservative Speaker that Republicans have had since New Gingrich. The he achieved actual wins against Joe Biden. The last continuing resolution that the people who ousted him are very angry about. He proposed a better one two weeks ago that they, that they scuttled, they said it wasn't good enough, and so they scuttled it. And so he had to pass a continuing resolution, and even then he stripped out funding for the Ukraine war, and somehow he's the bad guy.

0 (4m 46s):
And this is not that Kevin McCarthy's like the most amazing politician of all time. He, that he, he would be the greatest Speaker in history. It's you got no replacement, you got no strategy. This is all grandstanding nonsense. There's no purpose to it. What wins are you, are you attempting to get, I said this during the original Speakership fight back in January. Chip Roy, who's one of the people who may be considered for the Speakership slot if he wants it. I don't know why anyone in the world would want that job is a horrible job. It is the second worst job in America behind Donald Trump's personal lawyer. I I I do not understand what Chip Roy did not want this. Okay, but in any case, chip Roy back in January, he said, I want certain concessions for McCarthy. And then he got them and then he said, okay, McCarthy should be, should be Speaker.

0 (5m 26s):
That's a plan. But this is not a plan. This is just people ranting and raving against. This is Leroy Jenkins' congressional version. These people running for no reason into a brick wall and then declaring victory as they bleed. It's, it, it's an amazing thing. Okay, to to again, to truly understand how dumb this is, you have to understand how vulnerable Democrats are and to understand how vulnerable Democrats are. Let me give you just the economic situation in the United States right now. Stocks tumbled on Tuesday according to C N B C. As treasury yields hit their highest levels since 2007, raising concern, higher interest rates would freeze the housing market and tip the economy into a recession. The Dow Jones Industrial average dropped 431 points. That's the worst day since March.

0 (6m 6s):
The Dow is now in the red for the year. The 10 year treasury yield touched 4.8%. That's the highest level. In 16 years, the benchmark yield has surged In the past month as the Federal Reserve pledged to keep interest rates at a higher level for longer, the 30 year treasury yield hit 4.925%. That is also the highest since 2007, which means that money is now rushing out of stocks and back into bonds. but it also means that a lot of people are expecting that inflation could be baked into the economy. That's the only reason the interest rates are gonna be stuck. This high Market watch has an entire article today talking about how government bond yields are ripping through global markets. By the way, when the, when the bonds that America is selling have a facially higher rate, that means the national debt is greatly exacerbated.

0 (6m 48s):
It means that if you're worried about national debt and about the amount of spending America's doing get Ready, America's interest payments on his debts are gonna outstrip the defense spending in the United States in the very, very near future. And these are bad numbers. The the possibility of recession is very much on the horizon right here again, according to market watch, banks are now basing banks are now bracing for a recession. Quote, bank stocks might be on pace for yearly losses as sharply higher interest rates take a toll. The industry's reserves are at the highest level in three decades, bank shares have come under more selling pressure since the Federal Reserve in September signaled it could keep rates higher for longer than earlier anticipated. The tough talk has dampened the years of rally in stocks and reignited as dramatic sell off in the roughly $25 trillion treasury market.

0 (7m 32s):
Right now, there's nothing standing in the way of higher treasury yields at Kathy Jones. The chief fixed income strategist at Schwab Center for Financial Research is fairly obvious. It's not good for banks. The rising yields has just been relentless. Higher yields on newly issued treasury bonds erode the portfolios that include lower coupons that issued when rates were lowered. Again, what happened in Silicon Valley Bank is they invested in American bonds at a certain facial rate and those became absolutely worthless the minute that the Federal Reserve issued new bonds at a higher rate. So this sort of stuff is gonna have dramatic follow. So Republicans are in historically very good position to win back more seats in the Congress, they don't have a tiny majority. They have a big majority to win back. The Senate, the map Senate, the Senate map in, in 2024 favors Republicans, they're in very good position to win back to presidency.

0 (8m 12s):
So naturally, why not distract the American people by having a useless Speakership fight? Why not? Sure. Why the hell not get to that momentarily? First, the G 20 or group of 20 is an international forum for governments and central bank governors. It was established in 1999 in response to the financial crisis of the late 1990s with the aim of promoting international financial stability. Well last month that G 20 announced a plan to impose digital currencies and digital IDs on their respective populations. Central Bank digital currencies essentially allow the government to track every purchase you make. They could even allow officials to prohibit you from purchasing certain products or freeze your accounts altogether. Well, even if you don't follow international economic policies all that closely, you should be concerned.

Birch Gold Group (8m 47s):
Again, I've diversified into gold. You should too. Get the help of my friends over at Birch Gold Group. Call Birch Gold today. Preserve your savings in a tax shelter, retirement account. I've been a customer of Birch Gold for years. They're the experts in precious metals. They make it incredibly easy to become a customer. If you have an I R A or 4 0 1 K from a previous employer that's just gathering dust, call Birch Gold, they'll help you convert it into an I R A in gold. You're not gonna pay a penny out of pocket. They'll simply convert that 4 0 1 k sitting in a bank somewhere into physical gold. It can't be tampered with text Ben to 98. 98. 98 Birch Gold will send you a free infokit on gold. If digital currency becomes a reality, you'll be glad you have something physical to fall back on. Text Ben to 98. 98 98 today, claim your free infokit on gold Again, inflation ain't going away either. So gold is a good way to defray some of that risk. Go check out Birch Gold today by texting 98 98 98 to Birch Gold and claim your free infokit today.

0 (9m 33s):
Okay, so yesterday the, the fight over the Speakership commenced, Matt Gaetz had been threatening this for a few days, a after the passage of the continuing resolution as a clean continuing resolution that only takes him 45 days into the future. So there was more room for negotiation, but Matt Gaetz decided that he'd had enough of Speaker McCarthy. Now, the predicate for this was set back in January because McCarthy had basically pledged that anyone at any time could bring what would be a no confidence vote, a vote to remove McCarthy and So. What that meant is that anybody at any time could make national headlines to become an international political figure by going up against McCarthy for good reason or bad. And Matt Gaetz was just waiting for his opportunity.

0 (10m 14s):
So, what that meant for Matt Gaetz and for some of the people who surround him is scuttle a better continuing resolution a couple of weeks ago. Then a new continuing resolution goes forward. McCarthy has to pass it because otherwise we're gonna go into a government shutdown with no prospect of actually passing a bill because Gaetz has already suggested he won't su support really another bill, anything that's, that's actually passable in a Senate controlled by Democrats. And then Matt Gaetz says, how dare McCarthy work with Democrats on this bill after helping scuttle a Republican only Bill? How dare he work with Democrats? I'm going to file a motion to vacate the chair. And then he, along with seven other Republicans votes with the entire Democratic caucus to get rid of McCarthy. So just to get the logic here, Matt Gaetz is very, very angry that a majority of Republicans voted with some Democrats to pass a continuing resolution.

0 (10m 58s):
That only happened because Matt Gaetz and his crew decided not to vote for a Republican only version of the continuing resolution a couple of weeks ago. And now he and his friends voted with all Democrats in order to oust McCarthy. So it's bad to side with Democrats. Very, very bad to decide unless you're ousting your own Speaker, that's a hell of a strategy and it makes no sense unless what you actually believe is that this has nothing to do with strengthening the Republican caucus or making the house more conservative. It makes sense. If what you believe is that it's really about grandstanding and getting headlines and raising money and sending out text messages, then it makes some sense. And that's what American politics has become about. It is all about incentive structures. Again, to go back to Sowell, this is all about incentive structures.

0 (11m 38s):
Yuval, who's a really good political theorist, he has said for quite a while that one of the big problems right now in the modern era is that our political class are incentivized to use Congress and political power as a platform for other things. It used to be that the institution of Congress shaped you. You went in, you learned how the game was played, how the sausage was made, and then you participated in that process. Now you go into Congress and basically your job is to comment on everything that is going on and to grandstand for the people back home and to not get anything done. And it's not about getting things done, it's about whether those things are good or bad. But the incentive right now, it's to simply yell at things and then Get a, a cable hit and then portray yourself as the most conservative guy in the room. So here's how it went down yesterday.

0 (12m 18s):
Yesterday Matt Gaetz moved against McCarthy. There was laughter on the house floor mostly from Democrats who were like, I can't even believe the Republicans are doing this. Like what in the, why is this even a thing that is happening right now? Here was a Gaetz moving against McCarthy yesterday.

3 (12m 30s):
For what purpose does a gentleman from New Jersey seek recognition?

4 (12m 35s):
You'll have to wait a minute

0 (12m 42s):
So you can hear people laughing in the chamber. Okay, just a quick flashback. Matt Gaetz. Okay, back when Paul Ryan was Speaker, he opposed ousting Paul Ryan and here was Matt Gaetz speaking on Fox News at the time.

5 (12m 56s):
If we take Paul Ryan off the field right now, instead of being able to finish strong in the hundred 15th Congress, we will shatter into a bunch of factions fighting against each other for power. We got enough of that in Washington already. Paul Ryan can be a caretaker of the Speakership. We can have a leadership election. We can go into the midterm strong. And I don't think that pushing him out early if he doesn't want to go, hey is in any way advantageous. Hey,

0 (13m 18s):
That was Matt Gaetz in 2018. Okay? It hadn't been that long and what changed the answer to what changed is pretty much nothing except that Matt Gaetz realized that you Get a lot more credit among a, a certain group of people for shouting and ranting at the wind and, and making moves like this than you would for, you know, actually getting things done in Congress. Again, I'm all for people trying to exact more conservative concessions from the Speaker of the house. That's fine. But there were no concessions actually attempted or exacted here. Sope McCarthy had a choice. He had to basically bring up a motion to table. The motion to table. If it had succeeded, would've stopped the motion to vacate. The motion to table would've relied presumably on some Democrats Democrats were like, you know what?

0 (13m 59s):
I I'm not, I'm not gonna kill you, but I don't have to save you. This, the Batman perspective from Batman begins, which is, you guys, this is a problem of your own making. Why would I possibly save you now? Is that good faith? Of course not. I mean, Democrats know that they're likely to get somebody in that Republican seat next time who is, who is probably going to be the head of another weak caucus going to be very difficult to negotiate with. Because again, you can't, it's, it's too fractious. The rules of the caucus don't make for the ability to consolidate policy. McCarthy had had basically worked with them in good faith on a couple of issues, but they don't care. I mean, why should they care? I I'm not gonna put this on Democrats. Yeah, if they were, if, if the shoe were on the other foot and Democrats were busy, ousting Hakeem Jeffries and here were the Speaker of the house, I wouldn't be saying the Republicans ought to save them.

0 (14m 44s):
So I don't blame Democrats for doing what Democrats do. I blame Republicans for voting with entirely Democrats in order to ous their own Speaker for no reason. Again, that makes any sense. So McCarthy instead called the vote, the motion to table failed. The vote went forward. And in the end, the eight Republicans who voted along with all Democrats to oust McCarthy from the Speakership were Representative to Andy Biggs of Arizona, who is a wild and crazy character. Ken Buck of Colorado, Tim Burchart of Tennessee, Eli Crane of Arizona, Bob Good of Virginia, Nancy Mason of South Carolina, and Matt Rosendale of Montana. And again, it's, it's amazing because their complaints were, were sort of vague to say the least.

0 (15m 26s):
Bob Good got up and he said the Speaker fought through 15 votes in January to become Speaker, but was only willing to fight through one failed CR before surrendering to the Democrats on Saturday. We need a Speaker who will fight for something. Anything besides just staying or becoming Speaker. So, what, what would you suggest? And the an there's never an answer to this. Understand, Matt Gaetz doesn't know who the hell's gonna become. Speaker. It's not like he has an alternative plan. He's a dog that caught the car. Wait, what? They, they don't know what the hell is happening next. Every single person they're suggesting to replace McCarthy, a Speaker supported McCarthy for Speaker, that's Jim Jordan from Ohio. That is, that is Chip Roy from Texas. All these people voted for McCarthy for Speaker and opposed this motion So. what is this exactly? And what it really is, is an act of personal peak and also, you know, personal political benefit for it, Matt Gaetz.

0 (16m 12s):
And when the incentives are not aligned, when the stars aren't aligned, when your personal political benefits run directly against the interests of the party at large or the movement at large, the incentive structure right now says they're gonna always be rogue actors who are able to do this sort of thing. It's a problem. We'll get to the actual breakdown in how this happened in just one moment.

PrizePicks (16m 30s):
First baseball season is officially over. That does not mean the fun has to, and that's because PrizePicks offers projections on pretty much every sport there is. N B A M L B N F L N H L P G A, college Sports eSports, NASCAR tennis, M M a, disco, whatever you are into PrizePicks is the easiest and fastest way to play daily fantasy sports. You pick two to six players and you choose whether they will score more or less than their PrizePicks projection. You can win up to 25 times your money on a single entry. You don't compete against other people, it's just you versus the projections. Plus PrizePicks has a reboot policy that keeps your entries in play, even if one of your players gets injured. So for N F L games in college football, top 25 matchups, if you have a player who exits the game in the first half and does not return in the second, that player is then rebooted. PrizePicks is the only daily fancy sports platform with injury insurance producer. Jake has been raving about PrizePicks. He's been enjoying his sports viewership. It's easy to interact with the app. The interface is a lot simpler than comparative apps. Go to PrizePicks dot com slash Ben, use promo code Ben for a first deposit match up to a hundred bucks. That's PrizePicks dot com slash Ben with promo code Ben for a deposit match. Again up to $100.

0 (17m 30s):
Okay, so yesterday it went like this. McCarthy called the vote on a motion to table. It failed. So then he was forced to bring to the floor according to the deal that he had made with these Republicans. The motion to vacate the chair and here was McCarthy defending himself. He said, Gaetz planned this all along. Here he was yesterday.

6 (17m 50s):
You know, if, if I counted how many times someone wanted to knock me out, that would've been gone a long time ago. Yes. Can you explain a little bit about why do it today? I mean, the idea that you, why not rip rip the mandate off here or what? Why not? You know, look, I think Matt has planned this all along. It didn't matter what we transpired, you know, he would've done it if we were in shutdown or not. I firmly believe it's the right decision to keep government open, to make sure our military is still paid, our border agents are still paid. And if that makes a challenge based upon whether I should be Speaker, I'll take that fight. So you're calling is blocked? Yeah.

0 (18m 26s):
Okay. Well it turned out that it wasn't a bluff. He was assuming, I, I mean I know Kevin McCarthy, he was assuming that in the end, even the rogue actors would have enough, would have enough wherewithal to assume that voting entirely with Democrats was a bad look and that they would come back into the fold and he was wrong. It turns out that the personal incentives did not align with the rest of the Republican incentives. So 4% of the caucus takes down the other 96% of the caucus. McCarthy said, keeping the government open was the right decision because we had no alternatives. The the bill that I tried to advance was opposed by the same people trying to kick me outta the Speakership. Now

6 (19m 2s):
I had a lot of Republicans that wanted me to do it. I never did it. Did Nancy and I get along? No, we, we really don't get along. But I thought the institution was too important and I thought that was too personal. But you know, at the end of the day, keeping government open and paying our troops was the right decision. I stand by that decision and the end of the day, if I have to lose my job over it, so be it. But I'm gonna fight for the American public and I'll continue to fight.

0 (19m 27s):
Now as you'll see people in the Republican Caucus from the right side of the caucus to the left side of the caucus, supported McCarthy in retaining the Speakership. So Representative Elisa Fannick, who's a very Trumpy congresswoman from New York, but she's more on the left wing of the Republican caucus yesterday. She said, I don't understand why we're going out for McCarthy. Like what's the deal here?

7 (19m 45s):
Kevin McCarthy is a happy warrior. He is tireless. He has that uniquely American grit under Kevin's Speakership that lasted 15 rounds of him never giving up. This Republican majority has exceeded all expectations. We reopened the People's house. We passed the strongest border security bill in our nation's history. We passed an energy plan to unleash American energy dominance. We passed defense bills to support our troops. Under Kevin's leadership, he's brought hundreds and hundreds of bipartisan members of Congress to Israel, our greatest ally. He elected the most diverse class of Republicans ever with the largest number of Republican women ever in American history.

7 (20m 31s):
This boy from Bakersfield, he cares deeply about his constituents, his country, and the American people.

0 (20m 38s):
Okay, that's Stefan. She's on the left wing of the Republican party. Then you got Thomas Massey, who's very much on the right wing of the Republican party, extremely stringent with regard to spending. And here's Massey supporting McCarthy yesterday

8 (20m 49s):
As the only member who's serving here, who took every chance to vote against Speaker Bainer and to vote against Speaker Ryan, I can tell you that this chamber has run, has been run better, more conservatively and more transparently under Mr. McCarthy than any other Speaker that I have served under. Amen. As a member of the rules committee one, one of three, one of three conservatives who were placed there out of trust, the Speaker gave us a blocking position by putting three of us on there to keep an eye on the rules committee to make sure the process was fair. And even I can tell you it's been fair and even none of us are voting against the Speaker today.

0 (21m 31s):
Again, it's only eight Republicans vote against the Speaker, but all it takes is a few to throw the rest of the house into chaos. And we'll get to more on this in Justin. One second, we get to Matt Gates's argument against Kevin McCarthy

Stamps.com (21m 42s):
First, if you run a small business, you need to plan ahead. One of the best ways to do that is you use stamps.com for all your mailing and shipping needs. stamps.com lets you print your own postage and shipping labels directly from your home or office space. It's incredibly convenient. Your shipping labels are ready to go in minutes so you can get back to running your business sooner. We don't waste time here at the Daily Web. We've used stamps.com since 2017. Our office management staff loves stamps.com because they don't have to spend hours at the post office anymore. stamps.com offers rates you can't find anywhere else, like up to 84% off U S P S and U P Ss shipping rates. Plus they'll automatically tell you your cheapest and fastest shipping options For 25 years, stamps.com has been indispensable to over 1 million businesses. You can print postage wherever you do business, no lines, no traffic, no waiting. They even send you a free scale. So you'll have everything you need to get started. Set your business up for success. Get started with stamps.com today. Sign up with promo code Shapiro for a special offer. It includes a four week trial plus free postage and free digital scale. No long-term commitments, no contracts. Just go to stamps.com, click that microphone at the top of the homepage, enter code Shapiro. We've been using stamps.com. As I say here at DailyWire since 2017, we saved ourselves a lot of money. You should do the same. Head on over to stamps.com, click that mic at the top of the page and enter a code Shapiro to get started.

0 (22m 49s):
Okay, So, what exactly was Matt Gaetz's argument? Well, it wasn't that he siding with Trump on this. Trump wanted McCarthy to be Speaker. It wasn't that he siding with the right wing of the party on this chip Roy Thomas Massey. They wanted McCarthy to be Speaker. By the way, you wanna talk about disloyalty in American politics? How about the fact that McCarthy has been incredibly loyal to For example President Trump and Trump is nowhere to be found in any of this. Just completely absent, not weighing in with Gaetz, not weighing in with anybody, just like he took a, took a breather on this one. Meanwhile, Gaetz gets up and he assails McCarthy and gave a speech of sailing him. Again, he didn't convince anybody, but he did have enough of the, he did have enough of the kind of un unaligned caucus to, to topple him on the basis of, of whatever this is.

0 (23m 32s):
Here's Gaetz.

8 (23m 34s):
The

5 (23m 34s):
Problem with my friend from Ohio's argument is that many of the bills he referenced as having passed are not law. We are on a fast track to an omnibus bill and it is difficult to champion oversight when house Republicans haven't even sent a subpoena to Hunter Biden. So it's hard to make the argument that oversight is the reason to continue when it sort of looks like failure theater.

0 (23m 55s):
Failure theater, you also have failure theater. How about you oppose the cr? How about the failure theater of what if we, what if we propose a bill in Congress to cut all spending and then we send it to a democratic Senate and a Democratic president And then if you don't vote for it, it's because you are insufficiently conservative. You don't talk about failure theater. This is failure theater. I mean, this right now isn't just failure theater, it's just failure. It's stupid failure. Again, it just ram yourself in the face with a brick. It's so dumb. Right? Okay, so then he didn't Gaetz, by the way, didn't just trash McCarthy. He then trashed all of his Republican colleagues as well.

5 (24m 27s):
My colleague says, we've passed the strongest border bills in history. Well guess what? Look at the border right now. We didn't use sufficient leverage in the debt limit or in any other thing to actually get results on the border. The border is a disaster. Really something. I don't think you're gonna be campaigning on that you fixed the border. And when it comes to how those raise money, I take no lecture on asking patriotic Americans to weigh in and contribute to this fight from those who would grovel and bend knee for the lobbyists and special interests who own our leadership, who have

0 (24m 58s):
God. This is such

5 (24m 59s):
Who all you want, who have hollowed out this town and have borrowed against the future of our future generations. This is such

0 (25m 6s):
I'll be happy. This political, this stupid garbage. Unbelievable. Honestly, shut, shut it up. This is such stupid, every element of this assumes that you're a moron. Every single element of assumes this is a moron. So the house passes a very strong border bill and then it turns out you know who controls the Senate Democrats, you know, who's the president? A Democrat. Do you think any of those things become law? Of course not. And then he is like, well it didn't become law did it? That's your fault. How is it possibly their fault? They did their part, they passed a bill and then it goes nowhere because no negotiation took place because of people like Matt Gaetz. I don't even understand that argument. Then he's making the case. Well, I'll fundraise however I want. I'm not gonna take lectures on people who are bought and paid for. You're literally fundraising off of doing a thing that does not move the ball forward for conservatives.

0 (25m 46s):
One inch, not one centimeter. You're making money off of that, you're fundraising off of that. And then he is doing the, the pathetic routine where he calls all of his colleagues corrupt. Like this is just such, if you fall for this grift, it is a grift. If you fall for this grift, man, I've got a, I've gotta beat up jalopy from 1968 to sell you for $500,000. Maybe you'll take that too, because this is a grift, okay? There is nothing else happening here other than a grift. You know how I can tell? Because there are 222 Republicans in the House of Representatives and 214 of them voted together and eight of them voted with Democrats to do nothing. This is not about McCarthy, this is about the idea that you can make money and you can make hay in the Republican party right now by losing and pretending that you are winning and fighting the establishment.

0 (26m 29s):
Whatever that means. There have been establishment politicians. I'm just wondering is, is Chip Roy one Is Thomas Maxey an establishment politician? Who the hell are you talking about? Who are you even talking about by the and and if I'm gonna take lectures from Matt Gaetz on fiscal irresponsibility, you know what I noticed? I noticed that Matt Gaetz was a big backer and continues to be a big endorser of a presidential candidate who refuses to touch entitlements on principle. Virtually all debt in the United States is driven by our entitlement programs. So again, he's just assuming you're a moron. He's assuming that when he shouts about spending and how he wants to lower it, that you're going to ignore the fact that he's endorsed candidates who spent $7 trillion more money than any person in the history of America and has vowed never to cut entitlements when he talks about how he's gonna raise money and he's not gonna take lectures from anybody else raising money.

0 (27m 17s):
I should point out here At this point that Kevin McCarthy, for all the people are saying about him, Kevin McCarthy aligned Pac spent millions of dollars supporting various members of the caucus that ended up ousting him. His majority committed, contributed, contributed $10,000 each to the campaigns of Matt Rosendale, Nancy Mace and Tim Burchett in the last election cycle gave five grand each to Eli Crane and Bob Good. The majority committee also contributed 10 grand each to Victoria Sparts, Warren Davidson. They were all in favor of voting to vacate McCarthy in the first place. So again, this is like, it, it's just, it, it's, it's such, it's so obvious that there is a group of Republicans in power and in the media who think you are an idiot and are not gonna tell you the truth on any of these matters because they believe that if they just tell you that somebody's insufficiently conservative, then that is enough.

0 (28m 8s):
They don't have to prove the case. They don't have to provide the evidence. They don't have to provide a strategy. And, and this, this sort of theater Pure purism where I'm the most Pure because I say that we should, we should spend no money on these things. It doesn't matter if it goes nowhere, doesn't matter if we end up losing elections. But I've been Pure that is not how any of this works. But I guess it is how this works. If, if, if people celebrate based on this and that Gaetz is celebrating today, he got his win. I don't know what he's gonna get for his win, but he got his win.

9 (28m 37s):
People have called you a narcissist. People say that is to your benefit alone is it to the benefit of you and to Donald Trump.

5 (28m 44s):
It's the benefit of this country that we have a better Speaker of the house than Kevin McCarthy. Kevin McCarthy couldn't keep his word. He made an agreement in January regarding the way Washington would work, and he violated that agreement. We are $33 trillion in debt. We are facing $2.2 trillion annual deficits. We face a de dollarization globally that will crush Americans working class Americans. Kevin McCarthy is a feature of the swamp. He has risen to power by collecting special interest money and redistributing that money in exchange for favors. We are breaking the fever. Now

0 (29m 19s):
This is breaking the fever again, I I'd like to hear, are you willing to restructure entitlements? You are worried about a $2.2 trillion deficit every year. What is driving it? Matt, are you willing to talk about that? Really? If so, would you like to say something about that to the candidate who you've endorsed for president of the United States who on principle says he will not do anything about it. Again, all these people who are complaining about spending, I don't remember them complaining when there was a Republican president of the United States and when there was a Republican Senate, it's only when they can make hay Gaetz. After all this was over, he tweeted, the fight is not over now we must elect a Speaker. Okay, any suggestions? Who's out there? Who wants the job? And now everybody in Congress turns into Homer Simpson backing into the bushes. Every single person in Congress. 'cause this is a job, man.

0 (29m 59s):
If you have to deal with this caucus, and this caucus is so fractious that at the very first sign that one of them can make an a, a nice M S N B C appearance and clear a buck from a text message that your Speakership is in danger. Why would anyone want that job? It is a terrible job. Kevin McCarthy did issue a closing statement as he left the Speakership position. Here is what he had to say.

6 (30m 22s):
Now, let's be fair. And it's wrong that you ever say they are not conservatives. They voted against one the greatest cut in history that Congress has ever voted for. 2 trillion. They voted against work requirements. They voted against NEPA reform, they voted against border security, they voted against God. They don't get to say they're conservative because they're angry and they're chaotic. That's not the party I belong to. The party of Reagan was if you believed in your principles that you could govern in a conservative way. They are not conservatives and they do not have the right to have the title.

0 (30m 58s):
He is, he is not wrong about any of that. And I've gotten to know some past speakers of the house inside their from Gingrich to Ryan to McCarthy. And lemme tell you, When, you have no power over your own caucus. You don't have power. That's it. Democrats know this is a team sport. Nancy Pelosi was able to wield her power with tremendous authority because the Democrats at least understand that in the end you vote with your party and the reason you vote with your party is to get things done. You wanna advance the ball. This sort of free radical nonsense is counterproductive. That tweet is so telling the fight is not over. Now we have to elect a Speaker. Okay? Who, who, who is your preferred candidate? Who is the best? Who is the person who you desperately want to be this per?

0 (31m 39s):
Because lemme tell you if you think that it's Chip Roy. Chip Roy yesterday was blasting Matt Gaetz. How about Jim Jordan? A lot of people love Jim Jordan. I like Jim Jordan, great guy from Ohio. Good Representative, excellent on the House Oversight committee here. Was Jim Jordan yesterday saying, this is ridiculous,

10 (31m 53s):
Mr. Jordan, how disappointed are you with the speak? What happened here? And Speaker

11 (31m 57s):
McCarthy? I thought it was un I thought it was unfair to unfair to Kevin. Kevin. I think he's done a fine job and he and I came in together. He's a good man and he didn't deserve this. And my judgment. Do you,

10 (32m 8s):
Will you run for Speaker? That's a decision

11 (32m 9s):
For the conference.

10 (32m 11s):
Are you open to it?

0 (32m 12s):
Okay, so he's at, so nobody wants this. Elise Stephanic doesn't want it. She's the conference chair and she again was endorsing McCarthy Tom er is the majority whip. He endorsed McCarthy. Steve Scalise endorsed McCarthy. Do you think any of these people are gonna be like radically better? Do you think these people are going, any of these people as Speaker, they don't have the power to do the thing. The incentives are not aligned. You have a democratic Senate, largely thanks to the personal intervention of Donald Trump in Georgia. Senate races losing two Senate seats that should be Republican. You have a Democratic president of the United States because Donald Trump lost to a dead man. So, what is your plan for victory? I keep asking this over and over to every Republican on presidential level, on, on a congressional level, on a senatorial level, on a state level, what is your plan to win?

0 (32m 55s):
What is your plan to win? Because you know what isn't winning? What isn't winning is stabbing yourself directly in the eye with a steak knife that's not winning. I don't even know why it would look like winning to anyone. I understand you're really mad at the world. I understand that you don't like the way the politics is being run, but you know what doesn't change any of that. Chopping off your own head with an ex is it's so stupid, Democrat, never interrupt your opponent while they're making a mistake. First rule of politics. Do not interrupt your opponent while they're make a mistake. Democrats have made an unending stream of mistakes. So Republicans naturally are like, hold on there, hold on there. I need in on this. We'll get to more on all of this in just one moment.

ZipRecruiter (33m 35s):
First, you know, if let, let's say that you did wanna get rid of a Speaker of the house for no apparent reason. Or, or may, maybe you did, maybe, maybe it was a bad Speaker of the house. You wanted to replace him with somebody better. Or say that you have an employees and you don't like him. Like, like let's say his name rhymes with Michael Moles. He like, he's he's terrible. He just, for no reason. He is been here just sucking off the off the teet of The Daily Wire for years on end, just horrifying you daily with his presence and all. Let, let's say you wanted to actually replace him. ZipRecruiter would be the place to go. ZipRecruiter's powerful technology finds candidates whose skills and experience match your job description, got your eye on top. Candidate ZipRecruiter invite to apply feature lets you send them a personal invite so they're more likely to apply to attract a specific candidate. ZipRecruiter offers attention at grabbing labels for your job posts like remote or training provided ZipRecruiter is trusted by millions. In fact, over 3.8 million businesses have come to ZipRecruiter for their hiring needs. Make a positive impact on your hiring future with ZipRecruiter. Four out of five employers who post on ZipRecruiter Get a quality candidate within the first day. See for yourself. Go to this exclusive web address to Try ZipRecruiter for FREE at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Again, ZipRecruiter dot com slash D A I l y W I r e. ZipRecruiter is indeed the smartest way to hire.

0 (34m 43s):
Speaking of which The, Daily Wire is excited to announce the search for our newest position head of studios at The Daily Wire. This role offers an incredible opportunity to shape the future of our company's rapidly growing entertainment division. At The Daily Wire, we're creating unforgettable content for our audiences through film, tv, podcast, merch, and more. You can be a part of it. Your leadership will be front and center as you drive the company's creative vision through expert content development, strategic partnerships, audience expansion, and widespread product distribution. Don't miss out on this extraordinary opportunity to do brilliant work that matters every single day. If you're interested in joining our team, visit DailyWire dot com slash Careers. That's DailyWire dot com slash Careers today. So all I'm saying here in all of this is there's no substitute for actually winning.

0 (35m 23s):
The, the appearance of winning isn't winning, shouting at the walls isn't winning, pouring gasoline on yourself and letting a mattress isn't winning. So why is Ka Lake running for Senate in Arizona? Why is that a thing that's happening? Kerry Lake just ran for governor of Arizona and lost to a wet dish rag named Katie Hobbs. She, she underperformed dramatically how she should have performed. Again, Arizona, very much like Georgia is a state that should be red. Arizona until very recently had two red senators and a red governor in Doug Ducey. Now it has two blue senators and a blue governor. So why keep dominating people who lost? I mean, I, first of all, I thought she's already the governor. I mean, how can she be both the senator and the governor at the same time? I mean, it's, it's quite amazing. What is the, what is the plan for victory?

0 (36m 5s):
What is the plan for victory and doubling down on stuff isn't a plan for victory. I don't understand. You know, what else is not a plan for victory? What else is not a plan for victory? Distracting from Joe Biden being a horrifyingly bad president. But, the Republican party seems bound and German to distract from that by having a primarily with too many candidates in a Tim Scott continues to run an absolutely quixotic campaign. There is no reason for him to be in the campaign. As I said before, if you wanna have like a true, interesting fight inside the Republican party over who is best poised to take on Joe Biden, you need to get rid of some of these candidates. Tim Scott, I like the guy. There is no reason he should be on the stage. Tim Scott is not breaking wind, let alone 3% in the polls. According to Politico. Tim Scott is struggling to break through in Iowa and New Hampshire, but a top campaign advisor is privately lobbying donors to stick with him until the primary reaches his home state of South Carolina.

0 (36m 53s):
That's absurd. He's not gonna win South Carolina. He's not even running out running Nikki Haley in South Carolina. He's not out running Trump in South Carolina. So. what we will get is just a bunch of candidates staying in until South Carolina. Trump will win by default. And maybe that's what you want, but that doesn't seem like a legit nominating process to me in terms of giving Americans a real choice. You need to consolidate the field pretty obviously, but again, the incentive structure for every candidate is to stay in as long as humanly possible rather than simply saying, my candidate has no purpose. I'm out. I can go back to being a successful senator and a great guy from the state of South Carolina. Instead, I'm just going to stay in. Meanwhile, on the Trump front, Donald Trump is spending his days in the courtroom. Now, again, that's not his fault. He's being prosecuted for no apparent reason in New York.

0 (37m 36s):
They're prosecuting him for fraud despite the fact that the people he supposedly defrauded say that they did not rely on his assertions of value in order to issue loans. For example. So he would say, yeah, my apartment is worth a bajillion dollars and it's three times the size it is. And the loan officer would then say, okay, you know what we're gonna do? We're gonna do our own appraisal. And then they would do it based on the appraisal and now they're, they're going after 'em for like $250 million. I understand it's stupid and I mean, you can see how, how drummed up all of this is, and there's a, a pool camera inside the courtroom the other day. And honestly, the optics of this are so awkward and weird. You've got Letitia James who's in the background. She's the ag of New York who's been pledging for years to go after Donald Trump. And she's like glaring at Trump in the background.

0 (38m 17s):
And then the camera makes its way around to Judge Geron, who is the judge in this case who's a liberal democrat who starts mugging for the cameras. It's all gross and stupid and here's what the pool camera look like.

12 (38m 26s):
You're more likely to have cameras and state proceedings. And so it's up to the discretion of the judge. Was

0 (38m 33s):
It zooming into? And James, frankly, I'm not surely it is all an arrested development to honest to God, we're just a bad comedy this country

12 (38m 40s):
Into this. The optics of this is working.

0 (38m 43s):
She's a clown show. She's glaring at Trump at pullout, focusing on Trump

12 (38m 47s):
Will be either filled with rage or they will be thrilled.

0 (38m 51s):
And then the camera person is making his way around the room and finds his way to judge.

12 (38m 55s):
You have James now being shown in the

0 (38m 56s):
Background. He mugs for the camera got Trump

12 (38m 58s):
In the foreground and it fulfills the narrative on both sides.

0 (39m 2s):
Our country is such a clown show. It's such a clown show. But do you, is any of this likely to make Joe Biden not president? That's all I care about. Make Joe Biden not the President anymore. 2024. That should be the campaign slogan. And again, it's not Trump's fault that he's being dragged into court in this particular case, but if the entire campaign's gonna revolve around this stuff, he's not gonna win. If the entire campaign is about Donald trump's legal troubles, he's not going to win. Well now he's been told to watch what he says and post or risk ending up behind bars for up to a month. In the second day of the Former president's financial fraud trial, judge Arthur Engan just issued a limited gag order against everyone in the civil case to stop verbal and social media related posts posted swipes at members of his staff. Personal attacks on members of my court staff are unacceptable, not appropriate.

0 (39m 43s):
Engan made clear Tuesday after Trump took a partisan swing at the judge's principle law clerk, Alison Greenfield on Trump's truth social platform calling what Trump did, quote a disparaging, untrue, and personally identifying post about a member of my staff. Gro only cited one of the defendants as the one behind the post, but it was obviously referring to Trump. The now deleted post showed Greenfield in a picture standing next to Chuck Schumer and calls her Schumer's girlfriend with his long history of going on offense. Today's the first time any judge has put the restraints of a gag order on Trump. That's according to deadline. And by the way, Geron would love nothing better than to put Donald Trump behind bars for a month. He would love it. It would be his favorite thing in the entire world. Trump, for his part, he's campaigning against the grossly incompetent and fraudulent Letitia James, who I noticed is not the current president of the United States.

0 (40m 27s):
I'm not blaming Trump for going on offense on this stuff. My point is, if the entire race is about Donald Trump's legal troubles, he's not going to win. I know that's an audacious claim, but if the entire campaign is about that, his chances of victory are a lot slimmer than they would be if the opposite were true Democrats know this, which is why they are doing it. Now that can be unfair, it can be wrong, it is unfair, and it is wrong. All of those things are true. Also, you know what my top priority is as a conservative, not Joe Biden being Joe Biden not being president. That's my top priority. I don't like what they're doing to Trump. I think it's very bad. So we should def defend, we should all contribute to Donald Trump's legal defense fund. And then we might wanna think about nominating a candidate who isn't gonna spend the next eight months in, in the courtroom spending every, every dollar that goes into his campaign fund on legal fees.

0 (41m 11s):
And here's Trump yesterday going after Letitia James,

13 (41m 14s):
But he's been given false information, misleading information, and corrupt information by a very corrupt and incompetent attorney general Leticia. This woman is grossly incompetent. She ran on the basis I will get Trump without knowing anything about. So he's been given this information. It's now been proven to be false, such as Mar-a-Lago and Poppy, Florida being worth $18 million when in fact is much closer to $1.5 million. At a minimum, she should start looking for the murders and the criminals, the violent criminals all over New York. Do something about all of the illegal migrants pouring into our city and state and not spend the next six months in a courthouse because she's been caught early.

13 (42m 5s):
Her numbers are fraudulent, she's a fraud, her numbers are fraudulent, and this case should be dismissed.

0 (42m 12s):
Okay? Again, he's not wrong about any of that. Also, what is everybody talking about today? Now, what they should be talking about is the economic news because the economic news for Joe Biden is awful in recession, as I've been saying for months, what goes up must come down, it went up. Now it's gonna come down where the economy is going and people are holding their money in cash. Every investor I know right now is waiting to see what happens with prices. Because essentially when the economy goes down, that's when everything goes on sale at the store. So there are a lot of people who are waiting to buy up assets when they hit, when they hit the skids. Right now they've been artificially bubbled by inflation, but they are going to go down and it's gonna take a little while for the economy to come back. So recession is probably around the corner right now. Shouldn't that be like top of mind for most Americans? In fact, it is top of mind for most Americans, unless they're focused in on dumb crap, unless they're focused in on stupidity.

0 (42m 55s):
Again, there's a reason Democrats are doing this strategically. Democrats are putting Trump in the dock in order to make that the top issue. So you may say, okay, well let, let's defend Trump by making him the nominee, then you are, you are in fact giving Democrats what they want because what they do want is Trump in the dock as the nominee. They can only control one part of that putting Trump in the dock. They can't control the other part making him the nominee. Again, I get the emotional temptation to say, okay, well, you know, they, they, they want it. Let's give it to 'em good and hard. The problem is, is that going to work? Is that likely to work? Is that going to be beneficial or not? There's so many issues on the democratic side of the aisle to talk about. Again, Democrats should be historically unpopular right now, if politics were working the way it should work right now, Democrats would've gotten blown out in the last election cycle.

0 (43m 37s):
Republicans would control the Senate. Republicans lost at least four Senate seats that they should have won in the last election cycle. It would've given them like a 53 seat majority in the Senate. Republicans should have had a house majority not of four or five or six votes. They should have had a house majority of 20. Everyone knows this is the case, but again, frustration with the entire system is, is leading people to think with, with lower parts of their anatomy rather than their brain. And it's not going to end well. Okay, meanwhile, one of the things that maybe Americans might wanna talk about is the giant crime wave that is now engulfing the nation. Again, in cities all over the United States, you have mobs of roving criminals who are doing criminal things. And now there have been at least two left-wing journalists, social justice advocates so-called who have been legitimately murdered in major American cities.

0 (44m 25s):
Ryan Carson, according to cbs news.com, a social justice advocate on a mission to make New York a better place was stabbed to death on the streets of Crown Heights. On Monday, people who knew Carson 32 said he dedicated his life to trying to change things for the better. He was a long time government advocate who was stabbed about 4:00 AM a mile away from Lafayette Avenue and Malcolm X Boulevard. He was standing on the street with his girlfriend. When the suspect approached and asked, what are you looking at before stabbing Carson in the chest multiple times, I was absolutely in disbelief. Said New York assembly member Emily Gallagher, who knew Carson before becoming a politician. Gallagher and Carson bonded over losing close friends to drug overdoses. Carson's girlfriend was not hurt. It was so shocking and there constantly said Max Sabo from bed Stoy.

0 (45m 5s):
The person was acting irrationally prior to the attack the police had made no arrests. Now it, that is story number one. Story number two. We talked about it briefly yesterday. Josh Krueger, who is a local journalist, journalist and community activist in Philadelphia, a defund, the police activist, he was shot seven times inside his own home in Philadelphia. No word on the motive for a shooting at no arrests have been made At this point. Meanwhile, Texas Congressman Henry Cuellar was carjacked at gunpoint in Washington dc. So that's things, things are going well all over. It's, it's just, it's going great. And, and then Kareem Jean-Pierre, this is Democrats, have no comeback to the fact that these crimes are occurring in their cities on their watch.

0 (45m 50s):
Here's, here's K J P Kain, Jean Pere, world's Wars Press Secretary, trying to blame Henry Quays carjacking on Republicans. Somehow,

14 (45m 59s):
If a member of Congress is not safe on the streets of the nation's capitol, who is,

15 (46m 6s):
Look, we're grateful and relieved that the Congress Congressman is unharmed. We understand what communities are going through across the country, not just in dc. That's why the president took action very early on in his administration to get the American Rescue Plan done without the help of Republicans,

0 (46m 23s):
As the American Rescue Republicans voted against the American Rescue Plan, which passed by the way. And so it's Republican's fault that people are getting stabbed to death on the streets of New York. Makes perfect sense. And it's a target rich environment for Republicans right now. It really, truly is. So obviously that means it's time for Republicans to, to set up a circular firing squad and go to town. Okay, time for some things I like, and then some things that I hate. So just as Democrats can root for chaos inside the Republican party, I can root for chaos inside the Democratic party. Gavin Newsom announced a woman named Lafon Butler, who is actually a merry lander for United States Senate. He put out a tweet saying, I'm proud to announce California's new United States Senator Lafon Butler.

0 (47m 3s):
As we mourn the enormous loss of Senator Feinstein, the very freedoms that she fought for reproductive freedom, equal protection, safety from gun violence, have never been under greater assault. Afonso has spent her entire career fighting for women and girls, and has been a fierce advocate for working people. She used to be a, a union leader, and she's also the president of Emily's List, which is a pro-abortion group, but most importantly says Gavin Newsom, she will make history becoming the first black lesbian to openly serve in the US Senate. Well, slow clap for diversity, man, because that's the thing that really matters. And sadly, she's not a little person with, and, and as far as I'm aware, no Native American heritage. But if she had those things, she'd be like, perfect. We should just make her the president by default, she says, Newsom says, I have no doubt she'll carry the baton left by Senator Feinstein, continue to break glass ceilings and fight for all Californians in Washington, which will be good since she's been fighting for Marylanders for quite a while now.

0 (47m 51s):
Again, Maryland, now, now the only state in the union with three US senators. So that's exciting. So why do I like this? Well, because again, in California, this is gonna cause extraordinary chaos. In his first public remarks about his Senate appointment, Gavin Newsom said Monday, it's completely up to Alfonso Butler, whether she runs for the seat previously held by Diane Feinstein, he had said that he would appoint an interim senator as opposed to like a permanent senator. And so there was a speculation that he had said to Alfonso Butler, I'm going to actually appoint you, but you can't run next time. So it'll be an out and out war between Adam Schiff and Barbara Lee. But you can't, like, I'm, I'll make you the Senator, but you're not permanent. Instead, he's just throwing her in there. And now the Democratic party's gonna have to have an intersectionality fight. Oh yeah, the best kind of fight. This is the kind of fight where Alfonsa Butler turns to Barbara Lee and says, you are black, but are you a lesbian?

0 (48m 35s):
Hmm. Do you like the ladies? Because if not, I should be the California senator. And meanwhile, Adam Schiff is over here going, well, I am a I am a Jewish guy, but that doesn't count as intersectional anymore. So that's awkward. So I'm all in favor of the intersectionality fight in my old home state of California. Newsom said, I think Lafon Butler is uniquely positioned, simply the best person I could find for this moment in the job. Now, the real reason he appointed Lafon Za Butler is he's trying to shore up union support in advance of a possible presidential run. Should Joe Biden keel over physically in the middle of 2024, we all know this is the case. So he's basically checking off every diversity box he can find in the Senate pick so that he can go back to the crowd, say to, to Black Americans, I did appoint a black woman. And he can go back to L G B T people and be like, you know who I did appoint a lesbian.

0 (49m 16s):
And then he can be like, you know, guys, you know what I did here? I appointed such, I appointed a union member an abortion pro, like it, oh, all boxes. Checked Newsom, who had pledged in 2021 to fill the seat with a black woman. If given the opportunity. By the way, I, my favorite game that, that the left likes to play in the media on this particular stuff is Newsom will say, I need a black woman. And then he points a black woman. I said, she's appointed 'cause she's a black woman. People like, how dare you say she was appointed because she's a black woman. She was just the best person for the job. Well, gang, here's the thing. I didn't say it. He said it in the same way that Kamala Harris was appointed because she's a black woman. That's just the reality. I didn't make the rules. You made the rules. Whatever she decides, the governor said she'd be an ideal candidate for the seat if she chooses to run for it.

0 (49m 60s):
He said, I've got an incredible appointee. It's, I I love this. So Barbara Lee had said it was an insult for Newsom to appoint a black woman to a caretaker role when he had said that he wanted a placeholder appointee so that he wouldn't actually intervene in the election. Barbara Lee is, no, it should, they should be permanent. Now, Barbara Lee has eaten those words. So this is a really entertaining stuff. By the way, Lafon Butler is the most radical senator in America now. She backed to plan to abolish bail across California for criminal suspects. So Democrats, the fact that Republicans are losing to this party, the, the Allen Simpson was the Republican senator for Wyoming, and he once suggested that American politics was a battle between what he termed the, the Evil party, the Democrats and the Stupid party, the Republicans.

0 (50m 45s):
And the stupid party continues to be incredibly stupid, and the evil party continues to appoint more and more radical people. So this is, this is all just great. Okay, time for a quick thing that I hate. So I am, I am displeased with the return of late night. I, I'm not sure anybody noticed the return of late night. Well, were they ever gone? Did we care that they were gone? I'm not sure that they did, but apparently they're all back now and they're worse than ever. So I'm, I I was pretty happy with the writer's strike, to be honest with you, because at least then we didn't have to deal with this kind of crap. Anyway, Jimmy Fallon announced that he was back last night to the cheers of at least two dozen people in his audience.

0 (51m 25s):
And here he was last night.

17 (51m 27s):
But I, I had a lot of time, five months. Yeah, a lot of time to really just sit and think, you know, and I, I, I, I, I had, I just finally just took a moment and I, I, I just realized how grateful I am for all of this and for this show. I really love it. I really, I really love this job. I love doing it. I love telling jokes. I love interviewing people. I love making you laugh. I'm very lucky to have this show, and I want to thank you all for supporting and choosing to have me in your bedrooms at nighttime.

0 (52m 4s):
Okay, well, you, you know, who doesn't appreciate him? His own employees. And there's a whole article while he was out about how terrible he is to his own staff, But, the, there's that, meanwhile, the, the joke writers were back at it. And man, man, they have jokes to tell about Wait for it. Wait for it. Donald Trump, they're gonna tell more jokes about do, did you, I don't even know how you could live without jokes from Stephen Colbert about Donald Trump for the past few weeks. I mean, it was, it was a dark time in American history. Here's Stephen Colbert back to telling crappy jokes about Trump.

18 (52m 30s):
The Gap will also got a visit from Donald Trump today. No, no, you're happy he was here because he is attending a civil trial that he has already lost. You see, last Tuesday, last last Tuesday, last Tuesday, the judge in this case took the rare step of issuing a summary judgment ruling that when it came time for him to apply for loans, Trump persistently committed fraud by inflating the value of his assets and said that Trump was living in a fantasy world, not the real world. Yes, a fantasy world where he won the election windmills kill whales. And this is 215 pounds.

0 (53m 13s):
So funny, man, without those rhetoric who AI could replace those jokes so easily, it would make your head swim. Was there a laugh anywhere in there? I'm, I'm confused as to, to where where it was. But don't worry, it wasn't just Stephen Colbert. Jimmy, Jimmy Kimmel was back, and he also had jokes about a topic you'll never believe what he was joking about. Wait, wait, hold, wait, this just in it was Trump. Whoa. No way. You mean these dumb asses are back at it. Joking about Trump, because they can never tell a joke about a Democrat unless they lose their, their Democrat party wallet card or something. Here, here is Jimmy Kimmel. At one point, Jimmy Kimmel used to be funny. This is, it's, it's pretty amazing how, how, how funny have fallen

19 (53m 49s):
Trump is now facing 91 felony counts, 91 felony counts. It's like all of Melania's birthday wishes came true at once. Every time something happened in the news, I would get texts asking me if I was bummed. We didn't have a show that night. And mostly I was fine But. the one that really got me was when they book Trump in Georgia, and he self-reported his weight at 215 pounds. I almost crossed the picket line for that. I really, if I was the judge in the case he has going on in New York right now, I'd start the trial. I'd say, listen, look, we're gonna get to the fraud thing, but first hop up on this scale. Big fella.

0 (54m 29s):
Hmm, wow. Like they, they're all telling the same joke about how he's fat, man, they're amazing at this. They're so good at this. I'm so glad that the writers are back. How could we have survived without the writers already? Guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be getting into an article from the Washington Post, claiming America needs more atheists. We'll be getting into that. If you're not a member, become a member. Use code Shapiro, check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.