0 (0s):
The Biden administration uses Medicare to cram down pricing on drug companies while claiming to help patients. but the law of unintended consequences is undefeated. the National Archives reveals there are 5,400 emails from Joe Biden using pseudonyms and Hurricane Idalia prepares to make landfall. I'm Ben Shapiro. This is The Ben. Shapiro Show.

ExpressVPN (22s):
Today's show is sponsored by ExpressVPN. Do. you like your web history being seen and sold to advertisers? No. me neither. At ExpressVPN right now at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (29s):
Well, it's an old saw in politics. There is no such thing as a free lunch. Well, apparently there are a lot of people out there who believe there is such a thing as free medicine. And the way that they are basically making the case is that big pharma in the United States makes a lot of money. Now, there are a lot of problems with big pharma for sure. There are drugs that are really not great for people that are marketed as though they're amazing for people, right? The most obvious example being Oxycontin. But it is also true that every single drug you take was developed by big pharma. Every single medicine you take was developed by big pharma. So if big pharma is responsible for Oxycon, they're also responsible for Advil. If big pharma is responsible for the mRNA vaccine that you didn't wanna take, big pharma is also responsible for all of the chemotherapy medications that your mother is taking.

0 (1m 11s):
So big pharma is responsible for all of those things, and the medical advances in the United States have led to a tremendous ex expansion of life expectancy in the United States. The the five-year cancer survival rate in the United States is much higher than anywhere else on Earth. The reason being we have better medicines than anywhere else on Earth. It also happens to be that we develop a huge number of medical patents right here in the United States. Well, the reason for that is because the United States when it comes to drug pricing, is maybe the last country on Earth that actively allows patients and doctors to buy drugs at the price that pharma is selling the drugs at, as opposed to using the government to cram down particular pricing. Now, this has been a bugaboo for a lot of politicians because they look at Canada or they look at Germany, or they look at Europe or any place else on Earth, and they say, well, they're buying those American drugs for far less than we are paying for those American drugs.

0 (2m 1s):
This is what led yesterday, the Biden administration to, through the Inflation Reduction Act, that had nothing to do with inflation reduction at all. It turns out that pretty much the entire thing was about giving away money for green boondoggles and also apparently screwing up the drug markets. Yesterday, the US government named 10 drugs that will be subject to the first ever price negotiations by Medicare taking aim at some of the most widely used and costliest medicines in the country. According to the Wall Street Journal at stake is arguably the government's strongest efforts to date to tackle high drug costs if drug makers can't persuade courts to scuttle the negotiating powers that Medicare was granted last year on the list of targeted medicines announced by the Biden administration. Tuesday, our treatments for cancer, diabetes, and heart disease that can cost tens of thousands of dollars a year or more, including the blood thinner Eliquis and diabetes treatment.

0 (2m 45s):
Jardiance Medicare spent five $50.5 billion on those drugs last year. According to JP Morgan Chase. The 10 drugs include many drugs fighting diabetes. There's an arthritis drug from Amgen called Enbr. On the list, there are a psoriasis drug from Johnson and Johnson. Stacey dudes Zena, a health policy professor at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine said this is a major step toward reducing drug spending. And of course, Joe Biden is very excited about all of this. He says, we pay way more for prescription drugs than any other economy on the world, in the world. And here he was yesterday explaining that if it's sold in Chicago, you are paying more money than if you are buying it in Toronto or Paris.

3 (3m 24s):
A drug company that makes a drug here in America. If it's sold in Chicago, you can buy the same drug in Toronto or Paris cheaper than you can buy it in Toronto. I mean in in Chicago.

0 (3m 38s):
Okay, well, that's true, but the reason that that's true is because basically the United States has allowed a bunch of other countries to free ride off the prices that Americans are paying. So what exactly would the downstream effects of this be? Well, according to the Wall Street Journal, the positive downstream effects would be lower prices. Those would take effect in 2026. Medicare would save an estimated $25 billion a year by 2031. The savings would mostly go to Medicare because it pays the bulk of the cost of the drugs. The reductions wouldn't directly affect the price patients pay at the pharmacy counter, but the price cuts would have an indirect impact on people's spending. Medicare plans to use the savings to put a $2,000 annual cap on how much members have to pay out of pocket for drugs starting in 2025. So it sounds like an unalloyed good, right?

0 (4m 19s):
Everything is great. It's awesome. There's only one problem, which is the medical innovation in the United States is about to crater. And when the government can cram down pricing in any particular area and remove the profit margin from the from the actual pricing mechanism, that means people are not going to invest the kinds of money that are necessary in order to create the drugs in the first place. In the same way that rent control decreases people building and constructing, because why would you build a new apartment knowing there's no profit in it? The investment in the biotech sphere is going to utterly dry up if the government via Medicare continues to cram down policies like this one. By the way, the policy itself is absolutely wild. I mean, the way that they are cramming this thing down is that they go to the companies that the Medicare goes to, the companies that produce the drugs, and then they tell them that they're now going to be subjected to this sort of arbitrary choice where they, where they pick your drug outta the lineup and they say, from now on, we are going to cram down a price on you.

0 (5m 18s):
The C M Ss can only select drugs that have been on the market for a certain period of time. For instance, a small molecule drug, a product in pill form like aspirin must have been on the market for nine years or more to be negotiation eligible. A biologic drug, a vaccine or a gene therapy, must have been marketed for 13 years or more for eligibility. There are a couple of exemptions that drug makers can use. They can say that they're small biotechs and they manufacture like one drug or biologic drugs that have a high likelihood of getting biosimilar competition within a couple of years on the list. There's no reason to cram down the price. There's gonna be somebody who develops a generic, but the, this is the start of the negotiation process. Basically, they're notified by Medicare that they are now subject to a price cram down, and they have to decide then whether to enter into talks.

0 (5m 59s):
If they choose not to, they would then face an excise tax scaling up to 95%. 95%. So they, they would still be able to sell their drug to Medicare, but Medicare would then claw back via the power of the federal government, 95%, 95% of any income from that drug. Or they would have to leave Medicare or Medicaid altogether, which by the way, doesn't help patients on Medicare or Medicaid. A whole hell of a lot, assuming drug companies then enter into the talks. The final negotiated rate on the first set of drugs applies to the pharmacy counter starting January 1st, 2026. So what is the downstream effect of all of this? Well, here is the thing that people are not seeing To develop a drug. Yes, you're looking at the drug, you see it come across the counter.

0 (6m 39s):
You're like, whoa, look at the sticker shock on that thing that is, and it doesn't cost nearly that much to produce the drug.

3 (6m 44s):
The amount of money that is put in r and d on drugs is insane. I mean, totally crazy. I know this because I personally invest in biotech companies. The amount of money that is sunk into biotech to develop like a working drug is totally crazy. And I promise you, if you remove the profit margin from these companies, there'll just be less investment in this sphere. Drugs that would've been produced just will not be produced. I'll get to more on this in just one second.

ExpressVPN (7m 10s):
First, I wanna talk to you about daily wire's. Most trusted privacy partner and premier sponsor of This show Expressive VPN. We are living in an era of tyranny. The internet is at the frontier of a battle for control. When powerful interests wanna push their agenda, they get big government and big tech to silence any voice that doesn't fit the narrative. Americans are being forced to go up the very thing that makes Americans great, our freedom of speech. Well, I don't like my voice being censored. I also don't like being monitored by big tech and big government. That's why I use Express VPN. You should do the same. The problem with big tech, not only do they attempt to censor you, they also track what you do online. While you're searching for the videos you watch everything you click, they can match your activity to your true identity using your device's unique IP address. When I use Express VPN, they can't see my IP address at all. My identity is anonymized by a secure VPN server plus Express. VPN encrypts 100% of my network traffic for protection from hackers and needs. Droppers Express VPN is really easy to use. I love, no matter what device I'm on in the app, literally has what button You tap it, you're protected. It's that simple. Stop letting big tech and big government control your information. Defend your rights, protect yourself at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben today, get an extra three months free on a one year package. That's E X P R E SS VPN dot com slash Ben. Visit ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben to learn more.

0 (8m 13s):
Okay, so in order to understand why the government can't just simply name prices for drugs and then magically the price comes down, you have to see the downstream effects. The prices on those drugs will indeed come down. It's the drugs that will never be developed that are the unintended consequences. So in 2019 alone, the pharmaceutical industry spent $83 billion in 20 19, 80 3 billion on r and d research and development. According to 1 20 20 study, which covered 632 new therapeutic drugs and biologic agents approved by the F D A. The estimated median capitalized research and development cost per product was $985 million, counting expenditures on failed trials, which you should count because the vast majority of drugs that are originally developed never make, make it to market somewhere between 85 and 90% of all drugs that enter phase one testing never make it through f D a approval process, but they cost a lot of money.

0 (9m 4s):
So that means that for every drug that actually hits the market, and it's not that many drugs every year, you're talking maybe like a dozen, couple dozen drugs hitting the market every year. It's costing like almost a billion by some estimates, somewhere between 1.3 and $2.4 billion a year to develop each one of the well to 1.3 and $2.4 billion to develop each one of those drugs. That's how much money these companies have to spend upfront to even develop a working drug. So how do they make that money back? What makes it profitable? Why would they spend 1.3, $2.4 billion on creating a drug or risk hundreds of millions of dollars on drugs that aren't ever going to make it outta phase three? Well, the reason is because on the other end, there has to be some sort of way to earn back that money.

0 (9m 47s):
Now, Americans do bear the brunt of the cost because other countries are free riding. We also captured the industry upside. It used to be in the 1970s that a huge percentage of drugs are actually developed in Europe today. A huge percentage of drugs are developed in the United States. According to 1 20 10 study, the United States accounted for 42% of prescription drug spending and 40% of total G D P among innovator countries and was responsible for 43.7% of what are called nme. New molecular entities. According to the B l s, the Bureau of labor statistics, the pharmaceutical and medicine manufacturing industry is responsible for about 332,000 jobs in the United States. In other words, it's a big business and it's a big business because there's actual freedom of pricing there, the United States.

0 (10m 27s):
So what exactly would happen if Medicare gets away with cramming down this pricing structure? According to national reviews, Jeff Mira drug development would drop off, and that's not according to him. It's according to C B O. The Congressional Budget Office has predicted the scheme provided for under the Inflation reduction Act would lead to a manufactured revenue loss of 15%. Such a cut in CBOs predicted 45 new drugs per year would suggest around seven fewer drugs per year. That means 121 drugs lost over an 18 year time horizon as one report estimated. So, which drugs would be most likely to disappear? The drugs most likely to disappear would actually be the ones that are for rare conditions, right? The ones that have less of a profit margin to begin with, those drugs would just go away. So you can forget about drugs being developed for the rare condition that your mother just got diagnosed with.

0 (11m 11s):
Those are just not going to be in the market anymore because who the hell's going to develop them if there's no money on the other end? There's another solution to this, by the way. That solution would be to aggressively make other countries pay their fair share when it comes to American medications. We could use every lever at our disposal in order to do that, right? This is where a trade war would actually be somewhat useful, saying to Canada or saying to the National Health Service, you guys are going to pay American companies what we hear in the United States pay, and we are going to use the levers at our disposal in order to make that happen. That would be well worthwhile because right now, basically America is subsidizing the rest of the world when it comes to drug creation. But the solution to that isn't for American governments who then cram down a pricing mechanism on the big pharma companies and the drug companies and the medicine companies.

0 (11m 55s):
When you do that, you just get rid of all the innovation. Imagine for a second. If the United States in any other industry decided that we're just gonna ratchet down cost, supposed government cost on any other area of American life and take the tax sector or, or take the financial sector, we're just gonna ratchet up taxation and we're gonna do so in order to lower supposedly the cost of the American taxpayer, we're just gonna tax that particular sector. What do you think happens? People flee. The innovation goes away. This is simple supply and demand kind of stuff. When you get rid of the profit margin in particular product line, there is less innovation, there's less investment in that area. It's very simple. But Joe Biden doesn't care about that. He caress about the top line look that he's bringing down cost.

0 (12m 37s):
The lost innovation is of no consequence to him whatsoever, because when it comes to Biden genomics, second order thinking is completely irrelevant. It's all first order thinking, I don't like the price of that drug. Therefore I will use government to cram down a new price on that drug. Sure, it means that a bunch of drugs aren't gonna participate in Medicare. You're still gonna have to get 'em over the counter. Sure, it means that you are going to lose the innovation by these companies or have them base themselves somewhere else, but at least you'll feel good about having supposedly brought down the cost. By the way, like Democrats care about the cost of Medicare. So since when have Democrats care about the cost of Medicare, they won't even restructure Medicare Medicaid Social security, which represents 66% of the American mandatory budget every year. Anytime anybody mentions maybe we should restructure those programs in order to lower the costs, they're like, no, no, no, we can't touch it.

0 (13m 22s):
Apparently the only way to touch it is to confiscate money and innovation from the private sector genius ideas. We get to another genius idea that's going under the radar and is being crammed down by the Biden administration via the National Labor Relations Board in just one second.

Balance Of Nature (13m 36s):
First, it can be very tough to maintain a healthy lifestyle with a busy schedule. So I'm pretty busy and I have another problem. I hate vegetables. I I, they're bad, but I still need the nutrition to be gotten from vegetables. Balance of Nature of fruits and veggies are a great way to make sure you're getting essential nutritional ingredients every single day. Through balance of nature's advanced cold vacuuming process, the vitamins and minerals and phytonutrients of the fruits and veggies are preserved, so you can get that vital nutrition in each capsule. Balance of Nature is a whole food supplement with no additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticides, or added sugar. The only thing in their capsules, the Pure fruits and the veggies, the stuff that you need. Balance of Nature. Since a bunch of the product down to the studio, it's kosher. So I've been taking it. It's great and it is very, very useful. I'm joined by other members of The, Daily Wire staff in taking balance of Nature. It may be keeping our company running at this point. I was really excited to find out as I say that the product is certified kosher. So you know, if you are a kosher keeper, then it's good for you. Go to balance of Nature dot com. Use promo code Shapiro for 40% off your first order as a preferred customer. That's balance of Nature dot com promo code Shapiro. Get 40% off your first preferred order. Again, balance of Nature dot com promo code Shapiro 40% off your first preferred order.

3 (14m 38s):
Okay, so the other big move the Biden administration has made over the course of the last week is going completely unnoticed and it's going to utterly wreck a huge number of industries. What exactly is this big move? Well, the National Labor Relations Board, and I'm gonna say it upfront because they've actually come after me for making jokes about them. I'm not kidding. They literally sent us a letter because I once made a joke about my employees and unions. We abide by all laws and regulations here at DailyWire. Also, the National Labor Relations Board is a joke and a garbage institution that shouldn't be a part of American government.

0 (15m 11s):
It is effectively speaking a tool of organized labor against the American taxpayer and the worker and businesses. That is what it is. The N L R B is a blot on American life. We abide by all available laws and regulations here at Daily Wire. Okay, so with all of that said, I'm gonna keep saying it over and over because the fascistic, N L R B, literally, if you make a joke, they literally will launch an investigation into you requiring you to obtain a lawyer to explain what a joke is. This is a thing that that didn't just happen to me. It also happened to Ben doch over at the Federalist. It's happened to a bunch of people. So these adults over at the N L R B or union based socialist, they, they, they have decided, they've now issued a decision in a case called Cemex Construction Material Pacific.

0 (15m 53s):
They announced a new framework for determining when employers are required to bargain with unions without a representation election. So normally you'd have to have a representation election, right? You have your entire base of your employee's vote on whether a Former union or not. Now, I'm not even in favor of that. I think the National Labor Relations Act is ridiculous on its face. If employees wish to unionize, then by all means go ahead and unionize. But that means that you have to get all the employees to be part of the union, not by voting a majority, but by getting 'em to actually join the union. If I don't wish to join the union, I wish to independently negotiate my salary with the employer. That should be my prerogative in a free country. I shouldn't be forced to join a union just because a majority of my employees will, of my fellow employees wish to join a union.

0 (16m 35s):
What if I'm better at my job than they are? What if I'm willing to work for less because I need the money? What? There are a bunch of reasons why you might not wanna join a union, which is presumably why union membership in the United States has dropped to a small fraction of what it once was. Union membership in the private sector in the United States is now what? 7%? Something like that. There's a reason for that. It's because unions weren't doing their jobs. They were just bankrupting the companies that they were siphoning money away from. In any case, many of these unions, no, they would have a represent election. Okay? The end of the, the National Labor Relations Act posited that if a majority of members of your employee base vote to form a union, you then by law must negotiate with the union.

0 (17m 16s):
Again, as I say, that's ridiculous. You should be able to say, don don't wish to negotiate with the union, and I'm sorry if I lose them, those employees. But there are other employees out there, but that's not what the National Labor Relations Act says. We abide by all laws and regulations here at The. Daily Wire. Okay, So here is what they're doing now. At least they used to have to hold an election. They used to have to actually have an election. Now, the National Labor Relations Board is saying the opposite. They say the new framework will affect will both effectuate employee's right to bargain through representatives of their own choosing and improve the fairness and integrity of board conducted elections. Under the new framework, when a union requests recognition on the basis that a majority of employees in an appropriate bargaining unit have designated the union as the representative, an employer must either recognize and bargain with the union or promptly file a petition seeking election.

0 (18m 1s):
And so let's be clear, they're now saying there's no election and there's no election to determine whether a union was formed at the local Amazon plan. It was just some union organizer went through and said, had everybody sign a petition saying, I wish to join a union. Now, one of the problems with that is you can bring an awful lot of pressure to bear. Unions for years have brought enormous amounts of pressure to bear on individual employees. You know what all your buddies will think if you don't sign this here petition. You wanna screw Bob over there? Bob knows where you live. Which is why there, there used to be in this country. You know, we, we, when we go to vote, there's the secret ballot with with unions. They're now moving against that. They're now basically saying, no more secret ballot. You're gonna be able to go around to your other employees and you're gonna have 'em sign a petition.

0 (18m 42s):
And now the company has two choices. One, they can either accept the union as fully formed and negotiate with it, or they can petition seeking an election. However, if an employer who seeks an election commits any unfair labor practice that would require setting aside the election, the petition will be dismissed. And rather than rerunning the election, the board will order the employer to recognize and bargain with the union. So what does this mean? This means, let's say that you find out, for example, that somebody has actually been pressuring employees inside your company to sign a petition and they didn't want to. And so you fired them for interference with your labor force. The N L R B could come in the back door and they could say, ah, you weren't allowed to fire that person. And now you are automatically forced to bargain with the union automatically forced to bargain with union.

0 (19m 24s):
It's a major change. This is why the American prospect is extremely excited. They say the Cemex decision was proceeded by another one day earlier in which the board also along party lines set out rules for representation elections, which required them to be held promptly after the board have been asked to conduct them. Curtailing employees to ability, ability to delay them, often indefinitely. So a lot of the employers would basically say, let's hold an election, but let's wait a month so we can actually, you know, poll people and give them some material as to the cost of of implementing a union here. Now the board's like, no, gotta hold the election right away. So let's just be clear, no election necessary in the first place because you can get people to sign a petition. Two, if they do request an election, the election has to be held like now.

0 (20m 4s):
And three, you are not allowed to take any action. The N L R B deems irresponsible or bad. And if so, they'll just automatically declare the union. As the American prospect, a far Left magazine says, taken together this one two punch effectively makes union organizing possible again, after decades in which unpunished employer illegality was the most decisive factor in reducing the nation's rate of private sector unionization from roughly 35% to a bare 6%. All of this is rude by the way, in a perverse and stupid version of economic history in which it was unionization in the American workforce that led to American prosperity. That is unbased in American economic history. It just isn't. I'll get to that in just one second.

Legacybox (20m 42s):
First Labor Day signals that fall is fast approaching apple picking, fall leaves, chili nights. They're on the horizon with Legacybox. You can cozy up and watch something special this fall. Your family's home movies, it's all that stuff that's out in the garage. Moldering, all those old pictures, all that old film, all those old reels, like you're not doing anything with that stuff. And the bugs are gonna get to it and the rod's gonna get to it. And what you really should do is get it preserved forever. Head on over to Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro. You can enjoy 55% off when you get started with Legacybox today. Do you know where your old box of home movies is right now? Well, like I say, it's probably in the attic or in the in or in the garage. And nothing good is happening to it. Well, Legacybox is a service that I have used both for my family, for my wife's family as well. We sent like boxes in two Legacybox of treasured memories using their all in one kit. My dad sent in old tapes in film, their team of experts digitized them by hand with the Utmost care and caution. In a few weeks, he received back his originals along with beautifully crafted digital copies he can easily share with family and friends. And this stuff is now preserved forever. Head on over to Legacybox dot com slash Bureau. Get an incredible 55% off with Legacybox exclusive tracking system will exactly where your order is every step of the way. Bye today. Send in when you're ready. That's Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro.

0 (21m 47s):
Okay, so all of this is rooted in a version of economic history in which it was American unions that built America. That is not true. That is not true. There are certainly circumstances in which unions are necessary and good coal miners unions would be an excellent example. Or let's say you have a company town and the company town is effectively in oligarchy and you have to have the ability to unionize in order to change conditions of the company town. However, unionization at America's car industry absolutely destroyed the American car industry in the 1950s because America was the only place capable of actually making cars. We were the only industrialized nation on earth that hadn't been wiped out by World War ii. We had big profit margins and the unions organized and they signed themselves extraordinarily rich contracts.

0 (22m 29s):
And those extraordinarily rich contracts ended up basically bankrupting all those car companies by the seventies. This is very often what happens when unions are giving outsized ability to organize. This is particularly true in the public sector by the way. You wanna talk about the bloated public sector in the United States. Private sector unions in some cases are at least understandable. Public sector unions are blocked. Public sector unions are the most corrupt bargain in American politics. Essentially what happens is that you have a bunch of union organizers and they negotiate with legislators for some sort of big giveaway deal, including very often the ability for the state to actually take outta people's paycheck union dues and hand it over to the union. The union then uses that money to get a bunch of Democrats elected and then negotiates with those people to sign more giveaways for themselves.

0 (23m 12s):
It's super duper corrupt and it's one of the reasons the cost of government has been skyrocketing year on year for literally my entire lifetime and beyond. If you think that the combination of this sort of top-down economic control centralization of American con of, of control of the American economy by the Biden administration is gonna have long-term effects are wrong, it's gonna have wild effects when it comes to the drug industry. It's gonna have wild effects when it comes to business overall with regards to these new unionization rules. And the Biden industry doesn't. The Biden administration doesn't care. They don't understand economics and they don't care about it. And they're, they're like small children when it comes to economics. I don't like high prices, therefore I will use the power of government to yell about high prices to bring them down.

0 (23m 52s):
Okay? But they're second order effects of this sort of stuff. They're unintended consequences always. These are the kind of idiotic thinkers truly who believe that in, in, in what they call the broken windows fallacy with regard to economics, that if you throw a rock through a window, you just help the economy because now somebody has to go buy a new pane of glass. Neglecting the fact that when you break the window, that shop owner was going to use that money to invest maybe in another employee, maybe that shop owner was going to buy new equipment and now they have to waste their money on another pane of glass. And this, this bizarre notion in economics that the only thing you have to focus on is the thing right in front of you, as opposed to all of the outsized effects beyond that thing. It's the death of actual efficiency.

0 (24m 34s):
It's the death of actual innovation. The Biden administration doesn't care 'cause they're just looking for giveaways that are political allies. Anyway. Meanwhile, Joe Biden has to lock down those political allies because the entire American public knows that Joe Biden is unpleasant. There is a growing impression that he's corrupt. That growing impression should have been launched, you know, at the beginning of his political career. 'cause he's been corrupt for literally half a gener, half a century at this point in American politics. But the, the, the biggest thing that's sticking to him right now is that the man obviously is no longer with it. Yesterday, Corin Jean-Pierre tried to defend Joe Biden's virility saying, well, he did go to Ukraine. You mean he took a plane and then wandered around there? Wow. Shocking stuff there, Corinne.

4 (25m 12s):
But I'm talking about what Americans see when they turn on the TV and they see, you know, Joe Biden's been in politics since before, literally since before you were born. Okay? And like that, he's, he's, alright, well, well let's talk aged. No,

5 (25m 24s):
Well, let's talk about

4 (25m 24s):
This as we all do. Let's

5 (25m 26s):
Talk about this. And you all talked about this back when we were, when we were, when we were marking the one year anniversary, right? The of, of the war in Ukraine, the unprovoked war by Russia. What did the president do? He went to Kyiv and he was there with the, with the alarms blaring in the back. And people were so impressed that he was able to be there and look strong and represent, represent the Amer, the American people in Kyiv in a war zone country.

0 (25m 55s):
I know that she, she has to do this for a living, but I gotta say that is, that is pretty weak sauce. Even morning Joe is like, yeah, we're all kind of concerned about his age.

6 (26m 4s):
89% of Republicans say Biden is too old. 69% of Democrats say he's too old. And 74% of independents say the same. This is something that the White House, the Biden campaign cannot avoid. It is a reality. It might be uncomfortable for some people to talk about, but when you have private dinner parties, when you go out and at the ice cream place in the summer, people do even Democrats who like Joe Biden and, and plan to support him, they do have concerns about his age.

7 (26m 32s):
Yes, they do. And it's just, it's just a fact that they have to deal with. I mean, the fact also is that those Democrats I think are are highly unlikely to say, okay, he's too old. I'll vote for Donald Trump, right?

0 (26m 46s):
Yeah, that's a problem. Even his own party knows the man is too old. And by the way, he is. I mean, yesterday, Joe Biden forgot the name of his secretary of Homeland Security, Alejandro Americas here, he was doing that

3 (26m 58s):
Secretary of Homeland Security, a guy who took the job. Thank you for taking the job, pal.

0 (27m 8s):
Oh, the guy who took the job. Yeah, he, he's lost. But it's not just that he's lost, there's also a growing perception that he's a nasty person, which of course is true. I've been talking about this for a while. The, the facade of Joe Biden, captain of empathy was always a lie. Joe Biden is a pathological narcissist, which is the reason why anytime somebody else is suffering, he immediately starts talking about his own idiotic experiences. Oh, you just lost a child in a fire in Hawaii. I'm gonna tell you about that time that my kitchen got set on fire for like 20 minutes. Oh, you lost a child blown up in Afghanistan. I'm gonna tell you about the time that my son came home in a coffin draped the flag, which is not even true. That's who Joe Biden is. Well, now there's a new book about the last couple of years, the Biden administration by Franklin for who's a Biden ally, right?

0 (27m 52s):
Somebody who's friendly toward Biden, and the book is called The Last Politician Inside Joe Biden's White House And The Struggle for America's Future. And th talks pretty openly about the fact that Joe Biden does not care about people like Joe Biden is, is not a person who is truly empathetic that his, his famous empathy goes away the minute that essentially the, the minute that it crosses his political streams, as long as, as long quote for a man vaunted for his empathy, he could be detached, even icy when confronted with the prospect of human suffering. That is what Forwarder says about Biden that's becoming increasingly clear to people, and it should be clear to people.

0 (28m 36s):
It's one of the reasons why his approval ratings tumbled in the aftermath of Afghanistan. It's not just that. By the way, we now have information that the National Archives has some 5,400 Joe Biden emails using fake names to dish government information to hunters and others as Vice President of the United States. According to the New York Post, the National Archives and Records Administration has admitted it's in possession of nearly 5,400 emails, electronic records and documents potentially showing President Biden using a pseudonym during his vice president vice presidency. NARA confirmed the existence of the trove in response to a June, 2022 Freedom of Information Act request by the Southeastern Legal Foundation. The request sought emails pertaining to the accounts of Robin Ware, Robert L.

0 (29m 16s):
Peters, and j r b Ware. Those are the by, by the way, very, very, I would say non brilliant pseudonyms right there. Robin Ware would be like Joseph Robinette, Biden and Ware is de l Ware. Get it guys Genius level stuff right there from Joe Biden. What what amazing pseudonym. The Southeastern Legal Foundation on Monday filed suit against Nera for the release of the, the records. They say all too often public officials abuse their power by using it for personal or political benefit. When they do many seek to hide it. The only way to preserve governmental integrity is for NARA to release biden's nearly 5,400 emails to SS l F and thus the public. They're accusing Nera of having dragged its feet since the foyer request since June, 2022.

0 (30m 1s):
Earlier this month, the House of Oversight committee chairman James Comer, demanded that Nera hands over any unredacted records in which Joe Biden used a pseudonym. Again, I'm confused as to under what guise Nera is denying access to these emails. It's the National Archives. I mean, they, they should really be giving access to these emails. All very suspicious. None of this is going to benefit Joe Biden. Okay, meanwhile, it's time for the stupid racial controversy of the day. So we actually have a couple, the stupidest racial controversy of the day is non-racial at all, according to Fox news.com. A video circulating on X this week depicted a young elementary school student in Colorado Springs, Colorado, being removed from class, having a Gadsden flag patch on his backpack.

0 (30m 46s):
The clip appeared to be recorded by Jayden's mother as she, her son and a school administrator, discussed the boy being pulled from class at the Vanguard School that day because of the patch. According to the staffer at the Colorado Charter School, the patch was disruptive to the classroom environment in that it had origins with slavery. No, it doesn't. No, it really, really doesn't. The Gaden flag for those who know nothing about it was formed in 1775, like before the American Revolution. It was formed as another version of the snake flag, the kind of the join or die flag that was actually in play for the colonies since like the 1750s. It has nothing to do with slavery whatsoever at all. So this 12 year old kid who's campaigning for vice president, I, I love that the school is basically running like a steel dossier, oppo on a 12 year old kid and strong stuff happening right here.

0 (31m 38s):
Apparently Jayden's mom disputed the school staff member throughout the meeting arguing the flag originated during the American Revolution. The video opens with Jayden, his mom and an unnamed school administrator sitting down for a meeting in her office to discuss the child's dismissal from class. And the staff member explains the reason they don't want the flag is, is due to the origins of slavery and the slave rate. Here's what it sounded like.

8 (31m 58s):
Do they know what the gadson flag is? That it's a historical flag. So they're the reason that they do not want the flag, we do not want the flag to play is due to its origins with the revolution, slavery and slave trade. That is what was, that's the reasoning behind them. No slave. The gadson one, the don't tread on me. Okay, low subs, I got, okay, yeah, it has nothing to do with slavery. That's like the Revolutionary War patch that was the slave when they were fighting the British. Like that wasn't, that's the revolution. Maybe you're thinking of like the the confederate pen, arm Confederate flag.

8 (32m 43s):
Okay. Yeah. And I mean, we teach him to always stick up for your beliefs and I mean, you're going over the revolution. This for seventh grade, I mean, the founding fathers stood up for what they believed in against unjust laws. This is unjust.

0 (32m 58s):
I like this kid just sitting there being like, oh, the entire administration is, is filled with morons. It's pretty amazing stuff. So the, the family has turned over some of the emails on this Ms blank as discussed. I'm providing you the rationale for determining the gazen flag is considered an unacceptable symbol. First case when E E O C required the complaint to be reviewed tied to Confederate flag and other white supremacy groups, including patriot groups and also tied to hate groups. So apparently the idea is that if some bad people use the Gads didn't flag, this means that the Gads didn't flag is itself bad, which is kind of weird because I know a lot of bad people who use the B l M flag. I don't see anybody on the left saying it's bad.

0 (33m 41s):
And the mom wrote back respectfully, everything can be considered racist and tied to white supremacy. It's sad because when everything becomes racist, nothing is, that's a problem for people of color like me, when we actually need to cry, racism and oppression and it's actually happening, no one will take it seriously. I think making everything racist is racist. L o l I'll type in random things I see from the school and type in racist into the Google search bar and let's see what I can come up with. Air racist, math, racist, definitely racist as a person of color. I agree. Totally racist. Good stuff right there. Again, it, it is amazing. But by the way, this is so petty that even the governor of Colorado, who's a Democrat, Jared Pollis, he's like, no, this is not a thing. Jared Pollis was like, this is, this is ridiculous.

0 (34m 22s):
He shared remarks. He said, I think it's great when kids express themselves in different ways, as long as they're not creating a disruptive environment. Certainly the GSS and flags a great iconic American flag. Other kids have L G B T flags, other have flags of major political parties that it's, it's so, it's so ridiculously absurd. By the way, even comparing the Gadsden flags, like the L G B T flag is absurd. The Gadsden flag is just a flag that symbolized the United States. By the way, we're gonna be talking with Jaden a little bit later on in the show during member block. So apparently they're, they're doubling down, but not on the Gadsden flag. They're allowing him the Gadsden flag, but he has a gun rights patch and that has to go away. So apparently, you know, patches that are associated with actual amendments to the United States Constitution, those probably need to go away.

0 (35m 4s):
I, I have serious questions as to whether the school is banning other similarly political statements, man, geniuses at all levels, prob probably we should delegate pretty much all educational power to these people without any veto power over them. That's probably the best, I think. I think that, that that'll work out absolutely fabulously. Okay, we'll get to in just one second. Updates on Hurricane id.

ZipRecruiter (35m 27s):
First let's talk about Chris. Chris is a guy who works for the show and Chris's job is to pull the clips for the show from the schedule every night. And he does a great job of it. I mean, mean we send him like tons of clips every single night. He, he pulls them for the morning, he pulls them leading up to the show, but sometimes, sometimes on rare occasions, it is the wrong clip or the clip is cut too short. And on those occasions, I immediately head on over to ZipRecruiter and add ZipRecruiter. I say we have an employee named Chris, this employee Na, named Chris. He must feel the pressure, thus I am posting for his job. ZipRecruiter is a place where you can find the best employees for your job. ZipRecruiter is the best way to help use AI to help you find people with skills that you need. ZipRecruiter's AI identifies candidates to our best suited for all kinds of roles right now Can try it for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. If you want the most qualified candidates ZipRecruiter uses and it's powerful AI to find and send you people whose skills and experience match your job, then ZipRecruiter lets you easily invite them to apply and to encourage them to apply sooner. In fact, over 3.8 million businesses have come to ZipRecruiter for their hiring needs. Head on over to ZipRecruiter dot com right now. Get the leading edge on hiring with ZipRecruiter four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter. Get a quality candidate within day one. Go to this exclusive web address Try ZipRecruiter for FREE ZipRecruiter dot com slash daily. Wear again at ZipRecruiter dot com slash d A I l y W i r e. ZipRecruiter is the smartest way to hire. And if you're like me and you sometimes give insufficient instruction on which clips you want pulled and you want somebody to blame, ZipRecruiter is a great way to avoid your own responsibility. Head on over to ZipRecruiter dot com slash Daily Wire

0 (36m 54s):
also, whether it's changing the definition of words or trying to convince you two plus two actually equals five, it sometimes feels like current culture is making you unbelievably stupid. I've got good news. Our good friend Dennis Prager has answers in his Daily Wire plus series Prager you master's program. In the master's program, Dennis Prager has gathered 40 years worth of wisdom. He's sharing it on a number of wide ranging subjects. Dennis offers useful advice on marriage happiness and how to be a good person plus a lot more in a world that wants to make you woke. Dennis wants to make you wise. All episodes available right now only for Daily Wire plus members. Don't wait. Head over to Daily Wire plus.com. Become a member watch Prager you masters program today. Okay, meanwhile, Hurricane Idalia has been slamming the panhandle of Florida.

0 (37m 34s):
It was upgraded briefly to a category four. It was then downgraded to a category three as it made landfall. Obviously, we are keeping an eye on what is going on over there and praying for all the people in the path of this Hurricane. It's got a major storm surge. It, it was up at 125 miles an hour in terms of the, the speed of the wind, I mean, catastrophic kind of stuff. Obviously the governor of Florida is on top of it. Governor DeSantis, he says that they have 1.1 million gallons of fuel that are stored for people.

9 (38m 4s):
We're now up to 1.1 million gallons of fuel that is on standby to be able to mitigate any fuel interruptions. And sometimes you have it, sometimes you don't. We'd rather be safe than sorry. So that fuel is there and that can be deployed as needed if there is an interruption in fuel.

0 (38m 24s):
Also, there are a hundred thousand Florida households that have already had their power restored as of the morning. So the state of Florida is on top of this thing. You know, how you handle a crisis obviously can boost you both politically domestic in, in terms of your home state, but also in terms of national politics. That does make some difference. Meanwhile, speaking of national politics, president Trump has said the quiet part out loud. He's now saying that he's opens the idea of a fake Ram Swami for vice president, which is one of the most expected things I have ever heard in my entire life since Vive is basically running for vice president at this point here. He was with Glenn back yesterday.

10 (38m 57s):
Have you thought of Vice President Ramis Swami?

11 (39m 1s):
Well, I think he's great. Look, anybody that said I'm the best president in a generation, I don't know, you'll have to define generation by so long time. And he said it a couple of times and he said it in a hundred years. So I I have to like a guy like that, you know, I can't get up upset with him, but he's a smart guy. He's a young guy. He's got a lot of talent. He's a very, very, a very intelligent person. He's got good energy and he, he could be in some form of something. I tell you, I think he'd be very good. I think he's very good. I think he's really distinguished himself.

0 (39m 36s):
Again, is there any doubt that Donald trump when he sees you as a threat? You runda ang you run meatball, you randa like the minute the you're a threat to him, he tries to squash you like a bug. If you're not a threat to him, he's very best friend. So, I mean, it's a little weird. There was a viral clip of a Viva yesterday, which I, I do love these old clips. Vivek was on hardball with Chris Matthews back in like 2003. So at the time he was in college by the way. So was Pete Buttigieg on This show. This is really funny. So M S N B C, everybody's got the, the, the early 2003 haircut. His haircut looks a lot like mine at the same time in my life. And, and Vivek is asking Al Sharpton about why he should vote for the person with the least experience in the race.

0 (40m 20s):
So I assume Vivek at this time was a Democrat

12 (40m 23s):
And hello, I'm Vivek and I wanna ask you, last week on the show, we had Senator Carey and this week and, and, and the week before we had Senator Edwards. And my question for you is, of all the Democratic candidates out there, why should I vote for the one with the least political experience?

13 (40m 38s):
Well, you shouldn't because I have the most political experience. I got involved in the political movement when I was 12 years old and I've been involved in social policy for the last 30 years. So don't confuse people that have a job with political experience. Whoever the head of, of, of some local bureaucracy has a job in Cambridge, that doesn't mean that they have political experience and it doesn't mean they have the experience to run the United States government. So I think that we confuse title holders with political experience as we have, have seen with the president occupant in the White House.

13 (41m 24s):
George Bush was a governor and clearly has shown he doesn't have political experience.

0 (41m 32s):
Okay, this is only funny because the question that Vivek was asking there is about lack of political experience. Why should I vote for you? Obviously Vivek is now the person on stage with no political experience and he is running for, for president of, of the United States. By the way, just a, a quick note, the same exact year, I also asked Al Sharpton a question. I think I was, let's see, in 2003, I would've been 19 years old. And the question that I asked Al Sharpton in 2003 was why he had helped incite not one but two riots. So slightly different questions there, depending on your political perspective. Okay? Meanwhile, Hollywood continues to sink into the Meyer. The latest indicator is five late night hosts who nobody even knew was missing.

0 (42m 12s):
Did you know that those late night hosts weren't even on the air? Did you notice it? I didn't notice it because, because no one noticed it. But now they have formed their own crappy podcast. I say it's crappy because I actually tried to listen to some of it yesterday and it's pretty unlistenable. It is Steven Colbert, Jimmy Fallon, Jimmy Kimmel, Seth Myers and John Oliver all created a podcast called Strike Force five, because they're striking guys. 'cause you see they're on, they're on strike, but they still wanna make some money, I assume, off the podcast. And they're teaming up for a new podcast aimed at helping their staff as the strike continues. It's a special 12 part podcast series. It sounds like somewhere between cancer and death. Right here is a little bit of what it sounds like.

15 (42m 51s):
One more time, Jimmy?

16 (42m 53s):
Yeah. Hi, I'm Jimmy Fallon.

15 (42m 54s):
I'm Stephen Colbert.

17 (42m 56s):
I'm Jimmy Kimmel. I thought when you said Jimmy, you meant me Jimmy, but you meant Jimmy. Jimmy.

15 (42m 60s):
I always mean you, but when you say I always

17 (43m 3s):
Seth Meyers, who do you mean?

15 (43m 5s):
I mean John Oliver.

17 (43m 7s):
That makes sense. It's the five

16 (43m 7s):
Of us together for a a a a A Maybe an hour. A a Day

17 (43m 13s):
Strikeforce five is the name of our podcast. Subscribe to it now,

15 (43m 17s):
Spotify or wherever else you get your podcasts. But Spotify, you

0 (43m 23s):
Welcome to the industry.

15 (43m 26s):
Woo.

0 (43m 27s):
And not everybody is built for podcasting. Let's just, let's just put it that way that that's still, I assume a, a better sort of backup plan than the backup plan of Dre de Mateo. She is the really excellent actress from the Sopranos. She, she played Adriana Serva. She has now joined only fans, which is I I suppose one way of making money. How old is Dred de Mateo at this point? She's 51. If you're relegated at 51 to doing only fans, something has gone wrong in your life, that seems like kind of a problem. But indeed, this has been her backup plan. Just showing you what, what, how, how well things are going in Hollywood.

0 (44m 8s):
According to U s a today, she announced this week on Instagram. She's taking her talents to only fans. Only fans is live right now. Her only fan's photo banner features a picture of her donning, a star printed blue bikini and her profile pictures features a not safe for work, snap for self, posing on a mattress, wearing nothing but cowboy boots. The Pornos reads her bio on only fans. Yeah, Hollywood, slow clap for our moral betters over there. They're doing an amazing job. Okay, time for some things I like and then some things that I hate. So things that I like. An actual piece of good news. According to The Daily Wire, a Canadian father who was thrown in jail after quote unquote misgendering, his gender confused teenage daughter, has now scored a legal win in the British Columbia Court of Appeal.

0 (44m 51s):
My judgment issued earlier this month, said Robert Hound did not have to spend any more time behind bars. The court dropped an order for him to pay a $30,000. Fine Hound said, I expected I would finish, if not all of that six months. A big chunk of it. This is a huge win. What it does is it was setting a precedent. What they wanted was a real deterrent for parents, especially when they're standing up against trans agenda with what's being pushed through to the schools by the School of Counselors and for all of these different things. Who Glynn was featured anonymously in the daily Wire's? Enormous hit documentary. What is a woman? And he took legal action after Canadian Children's Hospital in 2018. Told him his daughter, who's 13, was going to be injected with testosterone without his consent in British Columbia. The infants act permits minors to consent to their own trans treatments of doctors think it is in their best interest and parents' consent becomes irrelevant.

0 (45m 35s):
The court said the girl could move forward with the testosterone and said Holin was barred from publicly misgendering his daughter. So he couldn't even refer to her as his daughter. Hoggin continues to speak out. He was thrown in jail after he talked about the case and his daughter who was found in contempt of court. So he served about two months behind bars. Most of that time he was in solitary confinement. Absolute insanity. By the way, this is the sort of stuff that if the left had its way would come to America in California, I'm sure they would pursue something like this. The the good news is that he won an appeal court and he is now out for the moment. Alright, time for a thing that I hate. So ladies, I gotta ask you, why is it left to the gentleman to be annoyed by men dressing as women and pretending to be women?

0 (46m 20s):
Shouldn't you be insulted? I use as example one and one a Dylan Mulvaney, who continues to be given all sorts of applauded for being a gay dude who acts like a gay dude, but wearing female getup. His behavior is absolutely indistinguishable from his behavior when he was just a gay dude. But now he claims that he's a woman and he won a Streamy award on Sunday according to c n n, during his acceptance speech I don't use false pronouns. This is not a woman. This is a he. During his acceptance speech, Mulvaney said he didn't expect to win. He asked for people watching to support trans people publicly and proudly, and, and expressed gratitude and love in her heart for his supporters Best Night ever, ever.

0 (47m 3s):
He captioned his post Here is a, here's what Dylan Mulvaney had to say while wearing a, a red ball gown, a diamond necklace and bleach blonde dyed long hair.

19 (47m 17s):
My God. Hi.

20 (47m 20s):
You know, I'm really shocked because I thought the only award I would ever maybe win was maybe a Tony Award, but now I'm a musical theater gal with a Streamy theater. TikTok. We made it to the mainstream. 532 days ago. I made a coming out video that turned into my days of Girlhood series, and my life has been changed for the better. But on the flip side, there's also been an extreme amount of transphobia and hate, and I know that my community is feeling it, and I now know that even our allies are feeling it. And I look around this room and I just see so many amazing allies that have platforms, and I think allyship right now needs to look differently.

20 (48m 5s):
And you need to support trans people publicly. And, and, and

0 (48m 14s):
You too can be a man dressing as a woman and win awards and, and win plots for it. Again, what? By, by polling the, the polling data suggests that women are far warmer to this sort of stuff than men. Mainly because women are nicer than men. And so women look at this sort of stuff and like, yeah, it's bull crap, but I'm gonna pretend it's not because I'm trying to be a nice person. Whereas guys are like, yeah, that's bull crap. No, no, no, no, no, no. But ladies, defend your own sex because if you won't defend your own sex from men pretending to be you, then who do you expect to do it? Exactly. Alrighty, coming up, we're gonna be speaking with Jayden, the 12 year old who's kicked out of class in Colorado for wearing a Gadsden flag. If you're not a member, become member Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.