0 (0s):
Iran releases five Americans to house arrest after Joe. Biden pays them $6 billion. the House Oversight Committee vows to subpoena the Bidens and a massive brawl breaks out between a group of white offenders and a group of black defenders in Alabama. I'm m Ben. Spiro This is the Bench Bureau show.

ExpressVPN (19s):
The Bench Shapiro Show is sponsored by ExpressVPN. I talk about them every single show. Why haven't you gotten a V VPN yet at ExpressVPN? Right now at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (26s):
So Joe Biden has found a new group of people to bribe. So this is now, I guess, how we do business. If you have a W N B A player who is not really famous, 'cause you know she's a W N B A player who goes to Russia and brings with her drugs, and then she gets arrested and she is stuck in jail. Yes, unjustly, we're like, what could we trade to get her back? And the answer is the merchant of death, which again, bad trade like White Sox, GM level trading right there, right merchant to death for, for Britney Grinder. Well, now we have a similar type of trade. Iran apparently has released from prison, five Americans, but has placed them under house arrest and actually being fully released and not being sent back to the United States.

0 (1m 7s):
They're just under house arrest. And Tehran, which sounds like a real party, is like being stuck in a house in Tehran. What exactly do we have to do to get them out of jail and into house arrest, which again is like its own sort of prison in Tehran, all we had to do was give them access to $6 billion in oil revenue for humanitarian purposes. By humanitarian purposes, Iran means, you know, terrorism and nuclear development. A statement from the National Security Security Council spokesperson, Adrian Watson says, quote, we have received confirmation that Iran has released from prison, five Americans who were unjustly detained and has placed them on house arrest. While this is an encouraging step, these US citizens, s Mazi, Moad, Taaz, EMED, sgi, and two Americans who at this time wish to remain private, should never have been detained in the first place.

0 (1m 49s):
We'll continue to monitor their condition as closely as possible. Of course, we will not rest until they are all back home in the United States. Until that time. Negotiations for their eventual release remain ongoing and are delicate. We will therefore have little in the way of details to provide about the state of their house arrest or about our efforts to secure their freedom. So just to do the math for you, for those who aren't that good at math, that is $1.2 billion per hostage. So I, you'd think maybe Iran is gonna think about taking some hostages in the future. How about Russia? Like so far, the trading strategy here appears to be like Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees from the Boston Red Sox level of trading strategy here. And this, these, this is egregious. It's egregious. Iran is a terrorist state.

0 (2m 29s):
We just gave them $6 billion now, to be fair, at least it wasn't, you know, $150 billion on the upper end, or $50 billion on the lower end of cash in pallets sent to Iran when Barack Obama was president. Basically to cut a crappy nuclear deal so that he could have a legacy in the Middle East. And again, to be fair, he wasn't trading Taliban terrorists for Bo Bergdahl a deserter, but in good. And if you wish to incentivize terrorist states who take American hostages, very difficult to think of a better way to do that than by giving 1.2 billion with a B dollars to get these people released from jail to house arrest in Tehran. What is it gonna take another billion and a half bucks to get them released from house arrest back to the United States?

0 (3m 9s):
Or is this the precursor to the long awaited Biden move toward Iran deal is Joe. Biden gonna use this as the predicate to argue that now relations are actually warming. They're thawing with the Iranian AYAs. Now, we should remember at this point that the Iranians are directly responsible for hundreds of American deaths in Iraq. It was Iranian backed force that killed hundreds of Americans in Iraq. Iran is the most nefarious force in the Middle East, whether we were talking about backing the Houthis in Yemen, whether we were talking about backing Hezbollah, a mass terrorist group in Lebanon, which could lead to a war between Israel and Lebanon in the very, very near future, whether we're talking about Iran battle backing Hamas and shipping them rockets, Iran backing Syria, every bad thing happening in the Middle East right now can be laid basically at the doorstep of the Iranian.

0 (3m 52s):
So the thing you don't want to do is give them access to billions of dollars in capital. So Joe Biden gave them access to billions of dollars in capital, which again, that dude not good at the ping. Listen, try and get American hostages out of terrible regimes is a great thing to do. But $1.2 billion a person that is not the correct price. It turns out that actually sticks can be very effective as well, not just carrots, but the Biden administration has offered no such stick in the past. I mean, the Reagan administration was able to free the Iranian hostages by basically being incredibly threatening toward the Iranian regime. It turns out a fantastic way to incentivize people to take hostages is to pay them billions of dollars for hostages.

0 (4m 34s):
Is this gonna be the predicate to an even warmer move by Joe Biden toward Iran deal? So we should remember at this point that Joe Biden, his chief negotiator with regard to Iran was a man named Robert Malley. Robert Malley was recently removed in terms of his security clearance. His security clearance was literally removed because he was suspected of trafficking and classified information. Robert Malley has been a long time critic of the state of Israel. He's been a long time peacenik with regard to the Iranian. AYA goes all the way back to the Obama administration. Robert Mally is one of Obama's guys, Maui. Just last month he had his security clearance removed, leading a group of Republican senators to urge the state department's internal watch drug to investigate the suspension of M'S.

0 (5m 18s):
Security clearance, ratcheting up scrutiny of the administration's handling of the incident. Mally was Joe Bidens top Iran Envoy, and he was helming the administration's efforts to restore nuclear deal with Iran when his security clearance was quietly suspended sometime this spring. He was then put on unpaid leave in late June following media reports that his clearance had been suspended. This administration bends over so far backward to try and draw some sort of Iran deal up that now they are sending negotiators who can't even get security clearance and they're clearing billions of dollars in cash to the ayatollah. Simultaneously, they're attempting to force the state of Israel to make concessions to Iranian backed terror groups. Like for example, Hamas. The latest attempt by Joe Biden to draw peace in the Middle East is a supposed Saudi Israeli normalization deal.

0 (6m 2s):
Now, the Saudis are perfectly willing to normalize relations with Israel. They've been wanting to do so since the Trump administration. That's the reason why the U a e, Bahrain, Morocco, all these countries that have very friendly relations with the Saudis have normalized relations with the Israelis. Already, Saudi clearly wanted to do that. I've seen public officials from Saudi Arabia directly talk about this. What was the holdup? The holdup is that Joe Biden basically put pressure on the Saudis not to do it unless Israel made concessions to the Palestinians. The Palestinians happened to be governed by terror groups. The Palestinian Authority is a longtime terror group. Islamic Jihad is an actual terror group. Hamas is clearly a terror group backed by Iran. Right now. Joe Bidens game with regard to the Saudis and the Israelis is to try to box Benjamin Netanyahu, the Prime Minister of Israel Inn, by essentially offering the carrot of a Saudi peace deal and the stick that the Saudi peace deal will be removed Unless Bibi Netanyahu makes overt concessions to a group of people who are likely to use all of those concessions as launching pads for terrorism.

0 (6m 58s):
According to Axios, prime Minister Netanyahu is seeking a security agreement with the United States focused on deterring Iran. In the context of that mega deal that the Biden administration is trying to reach with Saudi Arabia and Israel, a formal agreement would give it the US security guarantees to Israel at a time when Iran continues to advance its nuclear program. But Presumably, the thought with Iran is just another way of attempting to pressure bibe into taking some sort of deal with the Saudis that would amount to concessions to the Palestinians. Now again, the Saudis don't care about that. Realistically speaking, this idea of the Saudis are like desperately involved in Palestinian peace negotiations is nonsense. They don't care, okay? The reality is that economics trumps everything right now in the Middle East because all of these kingdoms are dependent on prosperity for their people.

0 (7m 38s):
These are not democracies. They do not have the democratic support of their people. The reason that they get to stay in power is because they enrich their people through economic growth. If the economic growth collapses, they also collapse. So they have a strong interest in creating economic ties with the strongest economic power in the region, which actually is Israel. It's Biden that's standing in the way of all of that. So we'll see how all of this develops and we'll keep an eye on it, obviously. Okay, in just one second, we'll get to the latest developments in the Hunter Biden case where the House of Oversight committee is preparing to issue subpoenas to both Hunter and Joe.

Boll & Branch (8m 8s):
First, have you ever invested in like a nice jacket, shoes, maybe a nice dinner? Well, that stuff, it's relatively temporary. You know what is not temporary? These sheets that you sleep on and that's stuff you're gonna be on that stuff for years, like eight hours a night. And this is why you need bowl and Branch start investing in your best sleep. With Bowl and Branch, they make the only sheets that get soft with every single wash bone and Branch sheets. They're made from the finest 100% organic cotton threads on earth. They feel buttery to the touch. They're super breathable. So they're perfect for both cooler and warmer months. Their signature hemp sheets were made with luxurious threads. They're made without pesticides from aldehyde or other harsh chemicals. Best of all, bone and Branch gives you a 30 night risk free trial, free shipping returns on orders, but you're not gonna wanna return them. Bone and Branch sheets are fantastic. We've had them for years, by the way. It's not just their sheets. They have fantastic blankets. I mean, the blankets are so good that I literally travel with one because it is that comfortable when I'm sleeping. Sleep better at night yourself with Bull and Branch sheets. Get 15% off your first order when you use promo Coach Shapiro at bull and Branch dot com. That's Bull and Branch, B O L L A N D Branch dot com promo Coach Shapiro exclusions apply. See site for details. That's bull and Branch dot com. Use promo coach Shapiro to get 15% off your very first order.

0 (9m 10s):
Okay, so meanwhile we have the House Oversight and Accountability Committee now announcing that they're going to subpoena the Biden family. Here is James Comer, Republican of Kentucky and the head of the House Oversight and Accountability Committee who, who said this today.

3 (9m 23s):
So are you going to subpoena Hunter Biden? They had Don Jr. Under oath during the Trump administration and they asked him all sorts of questions about what we understand, what we understood at the end of the day to be a lie about Russia collusion.

4 (9m 38s):
Yeah, this is always gonna end with the Bidens coming in front of the committee. We are going to subpoena the family. I mean, we are putting the case together to win in court. Obviously with all the opposition and obstruction we're getting from the Biden attorneys now we know that this is gonna end up in court when we subpoena the Biden. So we're putting together a case and I think we've done that very well.

0 (10m 1s):
Now, will they actually pay attention to the subpoena? Probably not. I mean, there are a bunch of people who have not. In the past, obviously, Steve Bannon didn't pay attention to a subpoena. He ended up in contempt. Eric Holderman, his Attorney General didn't pay attention to a subpoena. He ended up in contempt. Now, being held in contempt by Congress at this point has very little consequence, but the fact that the House Oversight and Accountability Committee is now attempting to actually subpoena the Bidens means that this is getting more and more serious. Comer says we wanna talk to three or four more associates. First, we've been communicating with a couple of them. He says we're trying to bring them in like we did Devin Archer for a transcribed interview. If they don't come in voluntarily, they will in fact be subpoenaed. He said it'll be very difficult to get information from Joe Biden through subpoenas because of course, anytime you try to subpoena the president of the United States, the President tends to ignore all of that.

0 (10m 42s):
But Comer correctly points out the thing that I've been pointing out for literally a couple of years at this point since the Hunter Biden laptop, the single most damning piece of information that we have with regard to how the money flowed in the Biden White House and with regard to Joe Biden as Vice President and Hunter Biden and all the rest of this, the single most damning piece of evidence is a text message sent from Hunter Biden to his daughter, talking about how he paid half of his dad's bills. Now here's the thing, hunter and Joe could have commingled funds very easily. Basically, Joe's defense here is that the money didn't formally enter my personal bank account, but if I pay for dinner with my father, then he benefits. And that happens like all the time. I go out to dinner with my dad and I'll pay for dinner. So he benefits from my income.

0 (11m 23s):
Well, if Hunter is basically signing checks for all of Joe's expenses, obviously he benefited. Here is James Comer saying that the most DMing piece of information is Hunter literally saying that he pays Joe's bills.

4 (11m 35s):
Why are they blocking us from more bank record, Rob? Yeah, if if the President's done nothing wrong, then they should allow us to see their personal bank record. I mean, you saying the emails that showed that Hunter Biden was complaining to his daughter that he had to give half of his income to his father, right? That's pretty damning evident. Yeah, when his income 100% came from our adversaries around the world For influence Pedley. Yeah, for for violating the Foreign Agent's Registration Act.

0 (12m 0s):
Okay. So, you know, he is right about all of that, obviously, and the juxtaposition between the D O J basically attempting to cut a sweetheart deal with Hunter Biden and the D O J simultaneously going after President Trump is gonna have some pretty major ramifications for the 2024 race Representative Dan Meuser Republican of Pennsylvania, he points out the juxtaposition and how awkward it is for the Biden administration.

3 (12m 21s):
How do you see that in terms of this coincidence that something happens in terms of evidence coming out on Hunter Hunter Biden the next day, another attack on Donald Trump?

5 (12m 29s):
I think it's pretty obvious and the American people, I think are, are waking up to it. I they're doing everything they can to suppress their, their own mafias activities and hide their own accounts and to desperately try to keep the Biden family outta jail. Meanwhile, they're completely focused on indicting their, they're number one opponent in, in a political campaign. Yeah, I mean, you know that that's Banana Republic stuff. American people gotta un understand that, that that is exactly what's happening.

0 (12m 58s):
Okay, well, he's right about that. He also points out, of course, that Joe Biden has lied repeatedly during this entire debacle. I mean, Joe Biden literally said that Hunter received no Chinese money. He said that an open debate in 2020. He said that he never benefited. He said that Hunter really never benefited from even using his name. He said he had nothing to do with Hunter's business. All of these things were untrue. Here is Representative Meuser pointing out that Joe Biden is a liar.

3 (13m 20s):
But first, let's talk about these new findings from the House Oversight Committee. How do you see all of this?

5 (13m 25s):
Well, it's, it's pretty ugly. It's pretty clear that Joe Biden lied. And why did he lie? Because he knew the business that was taking place. He knew a lot about the business. I mean, he informed his son that he was in the clear, in the clear for what Joe? And why were you lying? Because you knew you without pronouncing it. I mean, you must have known that this, this, there was some shady dealings taking place.

0 (13m 49s):
Okay, well here is the thing. The White House is immediately retreating to its final position in their mot and Bailey argument. Their, their, their mot was Joe. Biden knows nothing about any of the businesses and their Bailey is, you know, the thing they retreat to is Joe Bidens just such a wonderful father and they can't actually show that the money flowed directly to Joe. Here is the White House spokesperson for Oversight and investigations. Ian Sam Sk Comer and his fellow extreme Republicans in Congress are now admitting they haven't uncovered any proof of involvement or wrongdoing by President Biden. Well, I mean, they proved involvement. Devin Archer literally testified to it. They simply will continue to spread innuendo and lies as they pursue a baseless impeachment stunt to attack the president. Well, I'm sorry to break it to you guys. You opened this door, It was you, It was you, you impeached President Trump? Not once, but twice.

0 (14m 31s):
And you did so largely on the predicate that Donald Trump was a Russian agent, which was all innuendo and lies. It was not true. It was completely baseless. You made his entire presidency about a giant lie pursued by the Mueller investigation, and you trotted out congressperson after congressperson to say that the smoking gun was just behind the next door and it wasn't. So, congratulations. Play stupid games, win stupid prizes. I said it at the time. As soon as they impeached Trump the first time, every president from here on out is likely to be impeached. As long as the house of the opposing party, it is very likely that person is going to be impeached. Now, in this case, it may well be deserved, but even if it weren't, it doesn't matter because this is the way this is going to go. Now here's the thing. If Joe Biden really starts to go down for this, if the evidence continues to mount, it's not too late for Democrats to get out.

0 (15m 14s):
That remains a very real possibility. Elizabeth Warren is starting to show a little bit of a crack in the dam. So the Senator for Massachusetts, who used to have presidential aspirations of her own, and then it turned out she wasn't a Native American. Well, now Elizabeth Warren says she's worried about influence peddlers on all sides, which is an interesting answer.

6 (15m 33s):
People close to Joe Biden or people close to Donald Trump. But I'm talking about Joe Biden making tens of millions of dollars because of their closeness to him. That can't be something that you like, that can't be something that you're comfortable with as a phenomenon.

7 (15m 51s):
Look, I I always worry about the influence peddlers in Washington, regardless of party affiliation. One of the things, as you know, I've spent a lot of my time in Congress working on, is how we bring just more ethics and more Oversight in general to everything that we do in government. Look at, we've got a United States Supreme Court where people take gifts and don't even report them, even though the law requires them to report.

0 (16m 24s):
Okay, we'll get to that in just a second because the Democrats are now swiveling to clock Clarence Thomas. This is the way that this whole stupid game works. So there she's starting to show a little bit of discomfort with defending Joe Biden. As I say, if things start to get real bad for Joe, they could throw the old ban overboard. And unfortunately he can't swim. They don't care. But they're gonna swivel over to Clarence Thomas. That is their next predictable move. We'll get to that momentarily.

PragerU (16m 46s):
First, many Americans have lost faith in the government media and schools. That is the bad news. The good news is there's something you can do to help get the country back on track. Prager U is an educational nonprofit fighting to save the future of the country. They've been watched 5 million times a day. Prager U videos spread messages of liberty, economic freedom, and Judeo-Christian values to the next generation. We work closely with Prager. You, they're basically a sister company to our own. I've produced several videos on my own. Yeah, as, as one of the narrators of a PR U video. There truly is hope for America, but only if we reach more young people with Prager. You go to prager u.com, make a tax deductible donation. Whatever you give right now will be matched and have twice the impact. If you donate 10 bucks, it doubles two 20. That's how doubling works. 70% of viewers say their mind was changed after watching a Prager You video. Please give to Prager you today so your gift can have double the impact in reaching more people and changing more minds. Go to prager you.com today. Whatever you give again will be DOUBLED. Head over to pr you.com today. That is the best way to help young people, particularly young people going to university actually see content that will change their minds away from the indoctrination of their professors. Head over to prageru.com today and give generously.

0 (17m 48s):
Okay? Meanwhile, the Democrats are attempting to swivel the corruption. Talk over to Clarence Thomas. So ProPublica has basically been putting out ridiculous hit piece after ridiculous hit piece about Clarence Thomas. The suggestion being that he is some sort of corrupt politician. Clarence Thomas has a lot of friends who are very rich. They take him on vacation. Okay, now I've just gotta point out here, this is not rare at all. Like it really is not rare. People go on junkets all the time unless there is some sort of connection that can be shown between the people who are basically taking Clarence Thomas on vacations with them or letting him use their beach house and an actual case for controversy in front of Clarence Thomas. This is not a corruption problem. That's not the way this works.

0 (18m 28s):
See, here's the thing. When Joe Biden was vice president of the United States, he was presiding over a Ukraine policy. Hunter Biden was put on the board of a Ukrainian company. You can see the nexus. Okay? When, when Joe Biden was vice president of the United States, he had influence on China policy. Certainly the Chinese thought. So, which is Presumably, why they were wooing Hunter Biden, the, you can see the nexus. If, however, there is a Supreme Court justice and he has a rich friend and his rich friend says, would you like to spend the night on my boat? And the Supreme Court justice goes and spends the night on the boat and the rich friend has no business before the court never has had any business before. The court will not have any business before the court. Where exactly is the corruption as opposed to, you know, somebody just going on vacation with a friend.

0 (19m 9s):
While ProPublica is not making that distinction, they have an entire article today talking about how Clarence Thomas had 38 vacations. Wow. 38. Well, that, that sounds, you know, wild. Except for we are talking over the course of 30 years. So it's like a vacation for a year. During his three decades on the Supreme Court, Clarence Thomas has enjoyed steady access to a lifestyle. Most Americans can only imagine. Well, yeah, he's a Supreme Court justice. I mean, na name a poor Supreme Court justice. Quick go. A cadre of industry titans and ultra-wealthy executives have treated him to far-flung vacations, aboard their yachts, ushered him into premium suites at sporting events, and sent their private jets to fet him, including on more than one occasion in his entire 7 37. Okay? I'm just gonna point out that as a person who, who traffics in economically elite circles, this sort of stuff is not uncommon.

0 (19m 53s):
Like at all. I've spent time in luxury sports suites and I'm not a Supreme Court justice, right? I've traveled on private jets and I'm not a Supreme Court justice. And unless they can prove some sort of actual corrupt, even alleged some actual corruption here. Clarence Thomas going to a sports game with a rich friend does not amount to corruption like clockwork. Thomas' leisure activities have been underwritten by benefactors who share the ideology that drives his jurisprudence. Wait, you mean that his friends agree with him on politics? That's crazy. Hell no. Be still my beating heart ProPublica. But this of course is being used as a, as an excuse to try and get rid of Clarence Thomas, because Clarence Thomas is the most influential justice of my lifetime.

0 (20m 34s):
He has been incredibly influential in a wide variety of ways. It was Scalia up until Scalia's untimely death, obviously. But they're really just angry at Clarence Thomas because he's a conservative black man and, and that you're not allowed to be an originalist black man on the Supreme Court. Not allowed to do this. The, the real animus here is about his politics, which is why Supreme Court analyst for C N N Jon Biskupic is talking about Clarence Thomas controlling our lives, which is weird since he's one of nine justices

8 (20m 59s):
Whose dime are they on? Remember, they worked for us. The best part of being a Supreme Court justice is they set the law of the land for all of us. Clarence Thomas was one of only five votes that rolled back. Roe v. Wade, Clarence Thomas wrote the opinion, expanding the Second Amendment and gun rights. Clarence Thomas is controlling so much of our lives. I think you should answer to the American public,

0 (21m 21s):
Okay, by answer to the American public, you, you can try impeaching him anytime you want. You're just gonna have to find some actual criminal grounds, which you don't have at all. But none of that matters. Again, the way that this works is when Democrats go after a political opponent, you don't need an excuse. You just do it. When Republicans go after a political opponent, even if there is good evidence that the person is corrupt, we pretend it's not happening. We get tomorrow on this in just one second.

ZipRecruiter (21m 38s):
First, hiring somebody doesn't need to be this hard. I know it can be exhausting. Long, expensive. Thankfully ZipRecruiter is a hiring partner focused on you and your needs. ZipRecruiter knows it is really tough, but they figured out solutions for the problems you're facing. See for yourself right now, you can try 'em for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. We've been using ZipRecruiter over here four years. It's not only a great way to find great employees, it's also a great way to threaten the employees who you know might be on the bubble. Say for example, you have a producer, a producer named Jake, and say the producer named Jake happens to be a quasi observant Jew who speaks Hebrew with an American accent far stronger than your own. And sometimes you speak Hebrew to each other and it's just real awkward. But you don't wanna do that anymore because you, if we're gonna speak Hebrew, it should actually just, you know, have like an Israeli accent. Well, at that point you might wanna look at ZipRecruiter. ZipRecruiter Smart Technology finds great matches for your job and lets you invite the most qualified people to apply for that job. Their pricing is super straightforward. You can stick to your budget with no surprises. Team up with ZipRecruiter, a hiring partner who understands what you need. Four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter get a quality candidate within day one. Just go to this exclusive web address, Try ZipRecruiter for FREE ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Again, that's ZipRecruiter dot com slash D A io Y W I R e. ZipRecruiter is the smartest way to hire and also to threaten employees like Jake.

0 (22m 51s):
Okay, so speaking of corruption that we're all going to ignore, apparently it's just, okay, now that the January 6th committee deleted all of its records, like what the hell? Is there any institution in America at this point that is not utterly incompetent and or corrupt? According to Fox News, the House Select committee that investigated the Capitol Riot on January 6th failed to adequately preserve documents, data and video depositions, including communications it had with the Biden White House that are still missing according to the Republican lawmaker overseeing the G O P investigation into the committee's work. This is nuts. Okay, the J six committee, the most highly touted congressional committee since the nine 11 Commission, this, this committee deleted all of its records. Now, normally that wouldn't make a huge difference because Presumably, there are other records of, for example, the footage, right?

0 (23m 33s):
The police have that sort of footage. The Senate has that sort of footage. However, how about the communications with the White House? What sort of coordination, political coordination was going on between the J six committee and the Biden White House? What sort of political considerations were going into the questioning that was happening? How much was the White House running the show? They now disbanded J six committee, which was run by Democrats and included only two G O P members, has also failed to provide any evidence. It looked into Capitol Hill security failures. The day of the riot, according to Representative Barry Louder Milk Republican of Georgia, he's chairman of the subcommittee on Oversight for the Committee on House administration. Loudermilk said his staff has had difficulty gathering all the information it needs to investigate Representative Benny Thompson's handling of that J six investigation. He says, part of our task as this Oversight subcommittee is to actually address the security failures.

0 (24m 16s):
Looking at how did it happen? How are these people able to get into the Capitol? He said the documents they obtained came over in boxes, completely unorganized. No table of contents index. Nothing of an index at all. He says. And then we realized that there is really nothing there from the blue team at all. That's the group within the J six committee that was directed to investigate security failures at the capital. So they ignored the actual part that would've mattered about J six in terms of preventing a future J six. Namely, why was there like zero cops at the Capitol building on a day where everyone knew that things were gonna get ugly? Like where, that's a real question. Where were the security plans? Why was it that a few hundred rioters could storm what should be one of the most secure buildings on, on the face of the earth on a day when the election for the presidency who was being certified?

0 (25m 2s):
Like I, it, it still beggars the imagination. I put aside whatever the evils of people breaking into the building were. And those were substantial. If you're attacking cops, obviously, but like why were there seven cops? Where were Capitol police? Where was everyone? Right? This is the thing Congress should be investigating. And apparently they didn't even bother according to Loudermilk. He said the blue team was essentially shut down by the committee in order to focus on placing blame on Trump. He said, we've got lots of depositions, we've got lots of subpoenas, we've got video, other documents provided through subpoenas by individuals. We're not seeing anything from the blue team as far as reports on the investigation they did looking into the actual breach itself. We also didn't have any videos of all the depositions. That's an amazing, amazing thing. So they destroyed Presumably, whatever records they had, or they're just not turning any of that stuff over there.

0 (25m 47s):
Loudermilk said he came across a letter that was not turned over to his committee from Thompson to White House Special counsel, Richard Alber and the D H Ss discussing an agreement made between the J six committee and the executive Branch to interview personnel whose names were later redacted. So apparently the J six committee knew like certain staffers at the White House and those staffers testified and then they just refused to turn any of that stuff over. So this is really dicey sort of stuff. If you're a fan of transparency, you should be pretty upset about all of this. President Trump for his part was upset about all this year, was President Trump today about it.

9 (26m 23s):
I totally dispute that election. I think it's ridiculous what happened and that they allowed that to happen and that the media doesn't want anybody to talk about it. But now we can. And we did something yesterday. You know, now that we have the subpoena power, 'cause we now have subpoena power. All of a sudden, the J six committee, the unselect, I call 'em, everything was deleted and destroyed. The documents, everything was deleted and destroyed. That's a criminal act.

0 (26m 48s):
It is insane. It is a really, really crazy thing. For sure, for sure. Okay. Meanwhile, we are now learning that the prosecution, Jack Smith going up against Donald Trump actually sought and obtained a search warrant for Donald Trump's Twitter account. What they wanted were drafts of his tweets. Apparently, according to Politico, Jack Smith did obtain a search warrant for Trump's Twitter account earlier this year. Twitter's initial resistance to complying with the January 17th warrant resulted in a federal judge holding the company in contempt in levying a $350,000 fine. A federal court of appeals upheld that fine last month in a sealed opinion on Wednesday, the court unsealed a redacted version of that opinion, revealing details of the secret court battle for the first time.

0 (27m 28s):
What exactly was Smith seeking from Trump's account? Apparently he was looking for drafts of the tweets. Obtaining data from Twitter might have revealed patterns about Trump's use of the account, whether others had access to it, and whether there were any draft statements that were unsent. Now that's really weird, right? I mean, like what would be in the draft statements that would be of relevance to Jack Smith, like Trump was gonna send a draft saying, I know the election was lost by me, but riot anyway, like that was gonna be in the draft statements or something. By the way, the fact that he didn't send it would be a pretty quick and obvious defense to anything that might be found in the drafts. Anyway, Twitter complained that the order violated the first amendment. The US District Court judge said no and forced Twitter to turn over the records.

0 (28m 10s):
By the way, one of the things about this particular attempt to, to obtain Trump's Twitter records is that one of the federal judges who was overseeing the prosecution apparently suggested in a footnote that the, that they had reason to believe that Trump would quote, flee from prosecution. So the same district court judge was saying they need to check his Twitter account was also saying that they thought that Trump might actually abscond like leave, like free pro flee. He's one of, he's literally the most famous person on the planet. Where would he flee to? What evidence could you suggest that would suggest that Donald Trump is going to flee prosecution here?

0 (28m 51s):
I mean, again, more and more this case looks like just a kangaroo court. It's, it's really absurd. Meanwhile, you have members of the media who are very excited about the fact that Donald Trump's Twitter history is going to be searched, including his drafts. Here is a porter from Reuters, Jeff Mason saying there's gotta be tons there in Trump's Twitter drafts.

10 (29m 9s):
There are a lot more things that that could be in those records that we wouldn't see publicly drafts. And I know from my reporting covering him, the, the entire time he was in the White House, they would draft tweets. He would, he would say tweets. He would give tweet ideas to his staff and they would put 'em together. So there's gotta be a wealth of knowledge there alone, there are direct messages, a bunch of stuff like that, that, that could be useful.

0 (29m 33s):
Okay, well, just because you think a thing is useful, maybe that, that's called a fishing expedition. And it's pretty absurd that it's come this far. Meanwhile, president Trump is not going to participate in the first debate you would imagine. He says he's not going to sign any sort of r n c loyalty pledge ahead of the first debate. The R n C has said that everyone does have to sign a pledge that they will vote for whoever the Republican candidate is and support that Republican candidate. Trump said, I'm not signing the pledge. Why would I sign a pledge if there are people on there? I wouldn't have. He told Eric Boley, he could name three or four of the G o p challengers, he would not support for president. And, and he specifically criticized Chris Christie, which you can see, and Asa Hutchinson. And then he added, of course, Ron DeSantis because that's the way this dumb nonsense works. But bottom line is that the, the idea that he was ever gonna participate in the bait, I think is, is foolhardy.

0 (30m 16s):
He's up a lot in the polls. There's not a logic, a lot of logic suggesting that he needs to jump into the debate for any particular reason. I will say that's gonna be used against him by Joe Biden. So all the people who are, who are voting for Trump in the hopes that there will be a Biden Trump debate. I'm predicting it right now. There will be no Trump Biden debate. It's not going to happen. Joe Biden will not debate President Trump. He's not gonna do it. Joe Biden is simply gonna say, I don't debate. I don't debate insurrectionist, I convicted Go

11 (30m 42s):
Rapist, aka.

0 (30m 44s):
And then the media will go, what a hero. What a hero. That Joe Biden and Joe Biden will say, look at aka. And then they'll all cheer and the lights will slowly dimm as the music will rises. And that that's the way this, this idiocy is going to go. Now what does that mean for the rest of the Republican field? Well, basically it means it's a, it's a grab pot. It means they're all going to be in that pot together or clawing each other down in the middle of that debate, Presumably Ron DeSantis will be the chief target of all the other candidates on the stage. And Trump's just gonna sit out here and join himself, which again is in fact the, the smart strategy. Okay, in just one second, we are going to get to Rand Paul going after Anthony Fauci referring him actually for prosecution. We'll get to that in just one second.

Masterworks (31m 23s):
First, right now you look at the stock market, I gotta say on a personal level, I think that it is overpriced. I, I think I, I do not understand why the markets right now seem to be defying gravity. I could be wrong, but I like diversification. One way that some people diversify is by investing in high-end art, but you can't afford like a high-end piece of art, can you? Well, you could if you invested fractionally in that thing just days ago, our long-time sponsored Masterworks delivered a 77.3% net return to some of their investors. That is 77.3% net return. Many of my listeners have seen Masterworks art investing platform hand back 10, 17, 30 5% net returns from other recent exits. of course, as with any investment, past performance is not representative of artwork that has not yet been sold. It's not a guarantee of future returns. But as I said, Masterworks art investing platform into multi-year sponsor with over 780,000 users, you can get access to skip the waitlist simply by going to Masterworks dot com slash Ben. Again, that's Masterworks dot com slash Ben is a great way to diversify, maybe get away from, from some types of assets and into a new type of asset. Important disclosures. The risks of investing are available at Masterworks dot com slash cd. Go check them out.

0 (32m 25s):
Also, Candace Owens has now wrapped the 10 part series, convicting a Murderer. You're not gonna wanna miss it. It's one of our most ambitious projects yet here at DailyWire. Plus, you might think you're familiar with the Stephen Avery case and everything that happened in Manitoba County. This is especially true if you watch Making a Murderer on Netflix. Netflix. But it turns out the filmmakers kind of fibbed. Coming soon, Candace Owens will unveil the shocking parts of Avery's story that were omitted in the Netflix series. We are excited to present convicting a Murderer the trailer. Check it out.

12 (32m 51s):
This is a collect call from Steve. An inmate at the Calume County Jail.

0 (32m 55s):
A man served

13 (32m 56s):
18 years in prison until D n a evidence cleared his name.

14 (32m 59s):
The Two Rivers man was convicted of sexual assault in 1985, but exonerated with D N a evidence in 2003.

15 (33m 6s):
So this is the infamous Avery lot.

16 (33m 10s):
Now, two years later, he again finds himself tied to a police investigation accused

17 (33m 15s):
Of murdering Theresa Hallock on the Avery

15 (33m 18s):
Property.

18 (33m 18s):
Steven Avery's 16 year old nephew admitted his involvement in the rape and murder of Theresa Hallock.

15 (33m 24s):
The car is discovered just around the bend.

19 (33m 28s):
It

20 (33m 29s):
Was just this worldwide phenomenon. I

15 (33m 31s):
Think they framed this guy. I think he intended to crush the vehicle, which ran out of time. Avery thinks the $36 million lawsuit he filed is why he's being targeted in this investigation.

19 (33m 41s):
10 21

21 (33m 44s):
And 24 Main Street theft. Do we have Steven Avery

15 (33m 47s):
In custody? Netflix made millions of dollars from making a murderer, but the filmmakers left out very important details, mountains of evidence that you have not yet seen. The blood vial, the

0 (33m 58s):
Most egregious manipulation from the movie

15 (34m 0s):
Interrogations. That's

22 (34m 2s):
When he started beating me because I told him that he's sick

15 (34m 5s):
Cell phones and I saw melted plastic parts

0 (34m 7s):
Of a cell phone

15 (34m 8s):
Interviews, her arms were pinned behind her head. They made Steven Avery look like a victim. Do you ever

19 (34m 13s):
Believe your brother's guilty?

23 (34m 15s):
I don't know if I'm a suspect. I got on hide.

15 (34m 22s):
I'm getting sick and tired of media deception

20 (34m 26s):
Evidence piling off. Why

24 (34m 27s):
Would they omit so many different things? Why are you editing my testimony?

15 (34m 33s):
I am not going to make the same mistake that the filmmakers did

24 (34m 38s):
Rearranging the testimony. They delete a portion of it at the end.

15 (34m 43s):
How could they claim to care about the truth? They

24 (34m 45s):
All know that Steven Avery committed this crime.

19 (34m 51s):
What is your emergency?

25 (34m 53s):
The evidence forces me to conclude that you are the most dangerous individual ever to set foot in this courtroom.

0 (35m 3s):
To get the rest of that story, you have to watch Convicting A Murderer Coming to you September. This 10 part series is exclusive to DailyWire Plus, join right now at DailyWire dot com slash subscribe. Get 25% off your new annual membership so you can watch convicting murder when it premieres. Trust me, you're not gonna wanna miss it. Okay, meanwhile, Rand Paul is now referring Anthony Fauci to the D O J. He's suggesting that Anthony Fauci actually committed perjury before Congress when he suggested that he was not involved in gain of function. Researchers Rand Paul going after it.

26 (35m 32s):
What, what turned the tables for you? What evidence do you have?

27 (35m 37s):
Well, you know, I don't think there's ever been a clear case of perjury in the history of government testimony, and I don't say that lightly. He said adamantly that the government never funded this gain of function research. We now have the government accountability office. The G A O has admitted that the funding came from the N I H. We have the acting director Tabac of the N I H admitting it in writing, that it came from the N I H, but now we have really the smoking gun. And that is fauci in private saying the opposite of what he was saying in public.

0 (36m 8s):
I mean, that is right. So Anthony Fauci, as it turns out, was saying the opposite in private. The Free Press has a fantastic piece by David Zweig about this on April 17th, 2020 with much of the country still in some form of lockdown and news of overwhelmed hospitals dominating the headlines. Dr. Anthony Fauci, then a member of the President's Coronavirus task force was asked questions toward the end of a White House press briefing. Was there a possibility the novel virus came from a lab in Wuhan China? There's a study recently Fauci said, where a group of highly qualified evolutionary virologists looked at sequences there and sequences and bats as they evolve. And the mutations it took to get where it is now is totally consistent with jump of a species from an animal to a human. So it wasn't from a lab. Fauci maintained this for a very, very long time.

0 (36m 48s):
But Fauci had an incentive to arrive at that conclusion because the Wuhan Institute of Virology was known for doing high risk virology research, studying manipulating Coronaviruses and Fauci had funded such research at the W I V last month. A trove of explosive emails and other documents were released by the House Select Subcommittee on Covid. These revealed evidence of fauci and other officials behind the scenes in involvement with scientists and journalists demonstrating their efforts to quash the lab leak theory entirely. The recently disclosed private communications first reported by public and racquet lebert, that the highly qualified authors of that paper actually had extensive uncertainty about the virus being the result of a natural event at all. Apparently a month just before that, that paper was published.

0 (37m 28s):
Christian Anderson, one of the papers authors wrote a slack message to his colleague saying, quote, the lab escape version of this is so frigging likely to have happened because they were already doing this type of work and the molecular data is fully consistent with that scenario. And then another co-author wrote on Slack quote, it's not crackpot to suggest this could have happened given the gain of function research we know is happening. So fauci then intervened and he basically got them to write a paper saying that It was very unlikely. And then he went and he lied and said he hadn't funded gain of function research in the first place, and he tried to redefine gain of function research to mean gain of function within a species, not cross species. So should he be tried for perjury on this one? I mean, he pretty, it's pretty obvious that he should Is Merrick Garland's d o j gonna take that one up?

0 (38m 11s):
Yeah. No, they're, they're too busy going after everything that Donald Trump does, obviously. Meanwhile, the left, which it turns out was wrong on so many aspects of Covid, they just keep doubling down and creating fancy scenarios where control is justified. So Sam Harris, a person with whom I've been friendly and, and I've had him on my show, he's had me on his show. It's been a little while since we talked. Sam Harris did an interview that's gone viral in which he talked about government control. And in order for him to justify government control during the pandemic, he basically had to make the case that if C V I D had been capable of killing everybody on earth, we would've been okay with government fours. Well, I mean, maybe, but also that wasn't the case.

0 (38m 52s):
So I failed to Yes. And if aliens were attacking Earth, then martial law might be necessary. I don't, I don't understand what that has to do with the price of tea in China, as they say, here is Sam Harris,

28 (39m 1s):
You know, but dial up the, the deadlines of the pathogen. You know, give us something like, you know, airborne Ebola that incubates for a month. You don't, you don't know you have it and you're, you walk around spreading it and it's got, you know, a 75% fatality rate and it's mostly killing kids. No one gets to make that choice anymore. I mean, then literally the, the cops come in and vaccinate you. And I, I would say that all of us would agree to that. The moment again, that you turn up the lethality on the, on the pathogen, you turn up the effectiveness of the vaccine, you turn down the risk of the vaccine.

28 (39m 43s):
Give me a truly safe vaccine where there's not even one documented case of vaccine injury, right? So that then you just have to be completely crazy to be worried about being vaccinated in that envi in that kind of environment. Then it's just a no brainer. Then, then we just don't tolerate a diversity of opinion because the stakes are too high. It's, it's a full on emergency bodies of kids are being stacked up in parks, right? We, we, there's so many of them, we don't know what to do with them. We've got these mobile morgues and we have a vaccine that actually works. And then we've got R f K Junior saying, you know, may maybe you don't want, you know, maybe you don't wanna get the jab on Rogan's podcast, right?

28 (40m 25s):
That's, that, that's the, the world I've been worried about ever since Covid.

0 (40m 31s):
Well, I mean, so I, I assume the argument that he's actually making here to sort of steal man, his argument is that he's worried that vaccine skepticism is going to mean that if we ever do get a virus like this, then the reaction is going to be a lot of skepticism. But number one, that's the fault of the institutions. And to be fair, it's the fault of people like Sam Harris who were promoting a lot of government interventionism along these lines. Now, the, the reality is that if you looked at the stats, what you saw is that wherever the virus got incredibly prevalent, people actually voluntarily took the vaccine more during those time periods than when the virus was not prevalent, which is precisely what you would expect. Same thing with masks.

0 (41m 11s):
People, in other words, take prophylactic measures as they see fit in order to prevent themselves from getting really severe versions of the virus. This is why elderly people took the virus, took, took the vaccine at a far higher rate than people who are 20. And that, that should have been the case, by the way. But I mean, of course if we were talking about airborne Ebola killing 75% of people that it touched and mostly killing kids, I mean, I wouldn't hesitate to get a vax at that point. Would you Like, why, why would anybody? And yes, I mean, a full-blown emergency is different. That is the whole point. The point here is that the government treated this as a full-blown emergency for three long years in many places in the United States and across the world when it wasn't. So, I don't understand how the government's failures here are somehow justified by a completely speculative hypothetical scenario.

0 (41m 57s):
I mean, I can make those up too. I, it, it's very easy to make those up. What if the government lied that there was no covid at all? Wouldn't that justify no government interventionism and suggest that they were actually lying to you? I mean, there, there are hypotheticals all across the board. It's not hard to do a hypothetical, I'm just confused. It's why Sam Harris thinks that justifies what the government did here. Okay? Meanwhile, in what has been a bizarrely hilarious and yet controversial case there, so something happened the other day in Montgomery Alabama that is now being called the Alabama Tea Party Brawl. It's, or the Alabama Sweet Tea Party I have seen. So apparently what happened is that It was a Saturday evening on Montgomery's riverfront and a black riverboat co-captain was attacked by a group of white people.

0 (42m 44s):
As other black people rushed to his defense. Here is a video of what exactly happened. This is a riverboat captain trying to park his riverboat here. Somebody comes to him and actually hits him. A white guy is coming in, hitting the black guy. The black guy throws his hat Presumably saying that he wants to go. And these other white people are walking alongside the white guy and they're trying to pull the black guy off. And then other white people run in and tackle the black guy, at which point a bunch of nearby black people, they got the hat signal and, and they run in to intervene. One black guy jumps in the water and swims across the, the, the river here to go and help the, the black security guard actually as the, as the video continues, the, the term Aquaman was trending on Twitter after that.

0 (43m 32s):
So the, the reason this was treated with, with some humor is because everybody understood that the white guys here were actually doing the wrong thing. They were the ones who were arrested and nobody actually got, you know, seriously injured in all of this. As of Tuesday, warrants were issued against three men who were on the pontoon boat. Richard Roberts, 48, 2 counts of third degree assault, Alan Todd, 23 1 counts of third degree assault. And Zachary Chase Sims Shipman 25 1 counts of third degree assault, all are misdemeanors. The three charged were white men on board a pontoon boat that prevented the riverboat from docking for nearly an hour. So it sounds like they were being jerks. Here was the Montgomery Police chief announcing the prosecutions.

30 (44m 10s):
The police department didn't have the luxury of the videos that we all have seen. Now, now that we have more information, again, more charges are pending. The

31 (44m 19s):
Videos certainly paint a vivid picture after the initial altercation, members of the crew and community jumping in to defend the riverboats co-captain Damien Pickett. As you can see from this new footage, the fight quickly escalates. At one point a man even swinging a folding chair, a

0 (44m 36s):
W W E got he

31 (44m 37s):
Police custody this morning, Richard Roberts, two other men, Alan Todd and Zachary Shipman are expected to turn themselves in. All of them facing misdemeanor assault charges.

0 (44m 47s):
Okay, so this is a, a bizarre story with a happy ending. It seems like the people who are engaging in assault are going to jail. Now, the police say this is not racially motivated, so maybe it's just a bunch of drunk people being drunk and and attacking other people. But the media can quickly turn this into a racial story. So that's what Charles Blow is doing over at the New York Times. He says, the Alabama Sweet Tea Party, that was one nickname people gave to a brawl this past Saturday on Montgomery Alabama River Front Dock captured in viral videos after a group of white people attacked Damien Pickett. In some obvious ways, the whole episode is sad. The situation should never have descended into violence. The people who were asked to move their boat so the riverboat could dock, should have simply complied. But in other ways, many black people in particular saw it as an unfortunate but practically unavoidable response to what can feel like an unending stream of incidents in which black people are publicly victimized with no one willing or able to intervene or render aid black people.

0 (45m 35s):
Coming to the defense of that black man wasn't just a specific thing that happened at one time in place. It was also a departure in some ways from the most memorable images in the history. That centuries of black targeted brutality, which traces the journey of black people in this land that became the United States. So leave it to Charles Blow to turn this into a referendum on all of America's racial history as opposed to some drunk jackasses attacking a black guy, getting their asses kicked for the benefit and going to jail. It got, by the way, would Charles Blow be writing the reverse? If this had been a group of black people attacking a white riverboat captain, I have serious, serious doubts. There'd be anything like this level of societal analysis from Charles Blow. Sometimes dumb people and criminals and bad people do bad, dumb criminal things. And the race isn't actually the, the main issue in all of this, which is why, again, white people and black people were mainly happy that the perpetrators were arrested regardless of race.

0 (46m 23s):
Okay, time for some quick things I like. So things that I like today, again, there's something amusing about the immigration policy pursued by Democrats coming home to roost New York, mayor Eric Adams. You know, he's one of the people who's like, we need a sanctuary city here. Haven't you ever seen the declar? Haven't you ever seen the statute of Liberty and the poem on the side about, you know, the huddled masses yearning to be free. And now he's like, guys, can you please declare a state, state of emergency here in New York? Like, please, please, please. He, he doesn't say Joe Bidens name here. 'cause he wouldn't wanna do that, even though it's Joe Bidens fault. Here was Eric Adams acknowledging the obvious, which is illegal. Immigration is overwhelming a lot of cities.

32 (46m 58s):
The immigration system in this nation is broken. It has been broken for decades. We're also asking the federal government to declare a state of emergency. This will allow federal funds to be allocated quickly to help address the urgent challenges we face.

0 (47m 17s):
Even Chuck Todd over on M S N B C was like, oh, well, I guess that, I guess that Greg Abbott was right when he said that the Democrats were gonna turn on each other over illegal immigration.

33 (47m 25s):
New York City's growing humanitarian crisis. The shelter system slammed by an influx of migrants. The new calls for federal help, I guess Greg Abbott was right. He said once he got Blue Cities to deal with this, that they would be very upset at the federal government.

0 (47m 43s):
Oh, that's sad. Oh, that's sad. You mean the Blue Cities have to deal with the actual consequences of bad blue policy? Oh, how, how, how tragic. How's sad? All righty, guys, the rest of the show is continuing right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be joined on the line by Riley Gaines. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.