0 (0s):
We break down the latest effects of Bidenomics. the White House gives the Iranian government access to $6 billion while touting their dealmaking prowess and sexual harassment allegations emerge against Tim Ballard, the inspiration behind Sound of Freedom. I'm Ben Shapiro.

ExpressVPN (12s):
This is The Ben Shapiro Show The Ben Shapiro Show is sponsored by Express VPN Protect, your online Privacy today at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (24s):
The polls are really bad for Joe Biden on the economy. In fact, the polls are really bad for Joe Biden pretty much across the board. A CCB S news poll that came out over the weekend shows that the qualities that most Americans are looking for are just not present in Joe Biden. According to the latest C B SS news u gov poll, it shows that 67% of Americans want a president who is tough. 66% want a president who's caring. 62% want a president who's no nonsense. Only 61% want calm and 58% want energetic. Among people. Asked about Joe Biden's leadership style, 63% say that he's calm, but only 50% say that he's caring, and only 35% say that he has no nonsense. Meanwhile, Donald Trump's leadership style is seen as provocative by 71%.

0 (1m 6s):
By tough, it would seem as tough by 67%, energetic by 65%, no nonsense by 55% and entertaining by 55%. Even more importantly, despite the fact that Americans are really dissatisfied with this matchup, this Trump versus Biden perspective matchup with 64% of Americans saying that that rematch would make the them feel that the political system is totally broken on the economy. The numbers are awful for Joe Biden as well. They should be according to this poll, it shows that only 20% of Americans say they're better off today than they were before the pandemic. 45% say they're worse off today, and 35% say they're at about the same level, which is to say only 20% are pleased as punch as far as the choice for president.

0 (1m 47s):
If finances are worse now than before the pandemic, 71% say they would vote for Trump. So if you said that your finances are worse than they were before the pandemic, which is like 45% of Americans, seven in 10 of those voters say they're going to vote for President Trump. One of the administration's efforts according to C B SS news has been to tell what it teases Biden's accomplishments. A lot of voters do know about some key efforts and it apparently matters. For example, independents who have heard about the Biden administration investing in infrastructure are backing him, but those independents represent a small minority of people, and here's the reality. The vast majority of people who are thinking about the economy either think that they are no better off or significantly worse off than before the pandemic, and that has to do with Joe Biden's policy.

0 (2m 27s):
The fact of the matter is that Joe Biden's Easy Money policy, which has been combined with a extraordinarily restrictive regulatory environment, massive subsidies to his union buddies, green boondoggles and all the rest is making people feel pretty insecure. Their wages are not stacking up the same way they were before. The pandemic prices have risen dramatically and it doesn't look as though an end is in sight. Even people in the business sector who are supposedly doing amazing thanks to the stock market, boom, even those people are holding their money on the sidelines, not sure exactly where to put it, and you can hear the inability to handle the economy in the voice of Treasury secretary Janet Yellen, who's supposed to be the big expert on this sort of stuff. So Janet Yellen did an interview on C N B C yesterday in which she basically explained that she has no clue what to do next because they don't, they have no clue what to do next.

0 (3m 17s):
The problem with Keynesian stimulus is that when the stimulus doesn't work, you have no more bullets to fire. See, the thing about innovation is that innovation is done by individual entrepreneurs who have ideas and then look for the funding in order to go and build those ideas, but stimulus doesn't make the ideas magically happen. This is the equivalent of suggesting that some kid who gets straight C's, if you just give him an extra juice box, suddenly he's gonna get A's. That's not the way any of that works. The reality is that the only way to truly stimulate an economy is with innovation and growth. It is not simply by helicoptering money everywhere, but that is the entire premise of all left-wing economic policies that if you simply hoover up money from the private sector and then you blow it out, or you don't even do that, you hoover it up from the future and you blow it out in the present somehow this is going to lead to long-term economic growth and innovation.

0 (4m 5s):
The proof just ain't in the pudding. So Janet Yellen was asked on CNBC's at Squawk Box about the gas prices. Gas prices continue to be extraordinarily high, significantly higher than when Joe Biden took office and Jenny Ellis is like, look, we don't, we don't know. There's nothing we can do about it.

3 (4m 20s):
The Saudis are extending the production cuts through the end of the year. Are you looking at taking any action on this front?

4 (4m 26s):
Well, the president wants to make sure that gas prices remain affordable for Americans. Americans care a great deal about the price of gas. They're still down a dollar 20 off their highs last summer, although they have gone up recently, we're monitoring this situation very closely. The president has taken action over the last year. Certainly the releases of oil from the Strategic Petroleum reserve have been important in holding down oil prices and will continue to monitor that closely. Well, no,

3 (5m 4s):
Actually I just wonder how much,

0 (5m 5s):
Actually, no. The two things that Joe Biden has done that have tremendously affected gas prices, really three inflation affects the gas price. Two massive regulations placed on oil and gas companies, and the notion that Joe Biden spins out at every turn that he's going to kill off gas, he's going to just destroy oil production in this country. And then he is like, why don't you invest in the oil refineries today? Well, because you've said that you're gonna destroy the industry over the course of the next five to 10 years. That's factor number two, regulation and incentivization. And factor number three, Joe Biden has decided to make enemies of many of the biggest oil producers on planet earth, including the Saudi royal government. Right before he came into office, he basically said that he was gonna cut off the Saudis at the knees, and they returned the favor by saying, we'll cut you off at the knees, which presumably is why the gas prices in 2021, January, 2021 when this tool took over were $2 and 42 cents, and today they're $3 and 70 cents or thereabouts, and they've really never sunk below that in any serious way.

0 (5m 58s):
Meanwhile, Janet Yellen is claiming that we really shouldn't worry about this U a w strike. So we currently have a massive strike, the biggest strike against the Detroit car makers in modern American history. It's against all three Detroit car makers, and she's pretending that this is gonna have no economic impact to slow down at these plans

3 (6m 17s):
Because you have to be worried about inflation. I would think just as it's starting to come down, supply chain disruptions are a risk here, aren't they? Well,

4 (6m 25s):
You know I I think it's premature to be making forecast about what it means for the economy. It would depend very much on how long the strike lasts and exactly who's affected by it. But the important point I think, is that the two sides need to narrow their disagreements and to work for a win-win a contract that's good, good for the workers and for the industry as well.

0 (6m 56s):
Okay? But the entire reason this strike is happening, like all the other strikes that have happened on Joe Biden's watch is because everyone in Union World thinks that Joe Biden is on their sides. They're now all taking advantage of the easy money policies and the inflation of the Biden administration in order to strike against their employers, hoping that the Biden administration is gonna come in and ram down some sort of beneficial deal to them that will in the end, bankrupt these car companies. Again, remember the car companies went bankrupt the first time because of rich Union contracts, including defined benefits pension plans. That's exactly what the U a w is seeking right now. All of this can be laid at the footstep of this White House, all of this stuff, we'll get tomorrow on this in a second.

Pure Talk (7m 30s):
First, there is a company looking out for you right now. That company is Pure Talk. First of all, they don't hate your Gus like a lot of the other phone companies, but Pure Talk also has just added data to every plan, and they include a mobile hotspot with no price increase whatsoever. If you've considered Pure Talk before, but you haven't made the switch, take a look again for just 20 bucks a month, you get unlimited talk text and now 50% more five G data plus their new mobile hotspot. This is why I love Pure Talk. They're veteran owned. They only hire the best customer service team located right here in the great United States of America. Most families are saving almost $1,000 a year while enjoying the most dependable five G network in the country. Remember, you go with how you spend your cash stop supporting woke wireless companies that don't actually support you. When you go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro, you'll save an additional 50% off your very first month because they actually do value you. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Pure Talk is wireless for Americans by Americans. I've been using Pure Talk for all my business calls for months and months and months now, they're great. They share one of the tower networks with the big guys, which means that your coverage is excellent, and again, you're giving money to a company that doesn't hate your guts. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro, save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro.

0 (8m 32s):
Okay, so these strikes, these UAW strikes again are just part of a broader whole picture here, which is that the unions have paid off Joe Biden and the Democratic Party for literally decades on end, and finally they got their man in the White House, the most pro-union president since Barack Obama and probably pro more, more pro-union even than Barack Obama who's too elitist. Joe Biden has been in the pocket of the union since day one in Wilmington's, Delaware. Well, now all of these unions are seeing their moment to shine according to Politico, the UAWs walkout Friday at three four General Motors Andell Anis plans. Stell Anis, by the way, is Chrysler they got sold to a European conglomerate could become the most politically and economically disruptive strike since President Joe Biden took office, but it's hardly the only significant labor management clash during his administration made.

0 (9m 13s):
Part of that is because you actually appointed a union man head of your labor department and your national Labor relations board, an absolute frankensteinian monster in terms of its pathetic effect on the American government, the N L R B. It's a disgrace to American government. Bye by all rules and regulations of the N L R B. I have to say that every time because literally one time I made a joke and they sent us a threat letter. This is what they do for a living is just threaten businesses that are not in violation of the law workers according to Politico, armed with the power of a tight labor market and at times angered by how employers treated them during the pandemic, have organized with new energy from Hollywood to U P Ss to Starbucks. There's only one problem. The money ain't there to go around. You can pretend it is But. it ain't. If all of the left wingers over in Hollywood are not signing the Rich Union contracts, You know why that is.

0 (9m 56s):
'cause if they do, they'll go bankrupt. You're seeing this, by the way, in the stock prices of a lot of the major entertainment conglomerates ranging from Netflix to Disney. They're taking it directly on the chin and meanwhile they got their writers striking. When it comes to the auto manufacturers, they're all getting their lunch eaten by Tesla, which is a non-union shop. It is amazing how we can keep relearning the same lessons over and over and over again. You know all the, all the adults who suggest that it's unions that made American life so wonderful during the 1950s, 1960s. It was the union job, the union job where you sat there for 10 hours a day doing riveting or whatever and neglect the fact that a lot of those jobs You know now is you sitting in an air conditioned office doing another kind of job and that your grandfather who had to sit out there in the factory doing the riveting would kill for your job right?

0 (10m 40s):
Now, put that aside. The fact is that the real reason America boomed during the 1950s is because every other place on earth was on fire during the 1940s. It's not because the unions did such stellar work. They effectively bankrupted the car industry, which was the single greatest industry in the United States in the 1930s, forties, fifties and sixties. By the beginning of the 1970s, everybody was moving over to the cheap Toyotas. There's a reason for that crap union contracts, the first auto bailouts were happening by the eighties But. it says Political Biden has worked hard to brand himself as the most pro-labor president in American history and relied on union's political muscle to help him win the presidency. So when there's even the threat of a major strike, he's in the spotlight. More than other presidents have been, again, they know they've got him over the barrel in the showdown between the U a w and automakers.

0 (11m 20s):
Biden has publicly stepped carefully as the administration engages primarily behind the scenes But, it hasn't always been the case. Biden was able to intervene directly in talks between railroads and rail workers because federal law gives the government a big say in that industry's relations because of its economic importance. His top labor department official was involved in a deal this year between west coast ports and dock workers. When it came to rail negotiations, Biden's had a rail strike, without a doubt would've been an economic catastrophe at a very bad time in the year. The contract did not include paid sick leave for more than a hundred thousand workers who had threatened to strike the administration weeks before had broke a deal to avert an earlier strike. But four of the 12 labor unions involved representing more than half of the union workforce rejected the proposals, sending both congress and the administration into a frenzy to get involved before the holiday shipping rush.

0 (12m 2s):
The same thing happened with regard to the U P Ss and Teamsters as well as Westport Coast, as the West Coast port negotiations because this administration is basically owned by the union's lock stock and barrel unions know that and they are pressing while the iron is hot. Meanwhile, you can hear Bernie Sanders out there mimicking U A W's demands, including I kid you not u a w wants for its workers. Get ready for this a 32 hour work week, a 32 hour work week. Now your math is not deceiving you. That is a four day work week. That is eight hours a day, four days a week, a 32 hour work week. This is what they're seeking the U A W. Of course, Bernie is big in favor of it.

5 (12m 38s):
The this push from the U A W for a four day work week, is that a negotiating tactic or do you see that as the future of labor in the US a four day work week?

6 (12m 49s):
Well, I'll tell you what I think and thanks for raising that question, Jake. We are looking at an explosion in this country of artificial intelligence and robotics, and that means that the average worker is going to be much more productive pro worker productivity is going to increase significantly. The question as a nation that we have got to ask ourselves is who's gonna benefit from that increased productivity? Is all of that new income and wealth being created by worker productivity gonna go to the people on top or are workers going to benefit? So right now, in my view, I happen to believe that as a nation we should begin a serious discussion, and the U A W is doing that about substantially lowering the work week.

0 (13m 37s):
Okay, so first of all, we should point out here the word of pro worker productivity in the United States has largely been a result of investing in better machinery. It's not 'cause workers suddenly got massively better at their jobs. It's because their jobs themselves are more productive. Thanks to the uzeWf, for example, capital equipment. This has brought down prices which has benefited workers or would have if there had not been massive inflation. You know one way to reverse all the product, all the productivity gains. One way to do that is to artificially increase wages and lower the hours. That is one way to do that, and by the way, it's always short-term gain versus long-term pain when it comes to these union negotiations, the U AAW right now is negotiating for all of this stuff because they see that all the car companies did real well because of the boosting inflation prices of cars, right?

0 (14m 18s):
Car prices went up dramatically over the course of the last couple of years because of supply chain woes. Well, now those supply chain woes are going away and now the easy money policies of the United States are gonna have to be curbed. What happens when the car sales drop off? What happens when Joe Biden's push to force car companies to spend extraordinary amounts of cash shifting from gas powered vehicles, which represent 97% of all Detroit sales to EVs electric vehicles? Who's gonna absorb those costs? It's not gonna be the workers if they get their contract from Joe Biden, but Joe Biden won't care because again, it's all a corrupt bargain. The union spend billions of dollars every election cycle to back Democrats. This is why I always scoff when they say that Democrats wanna get money outta politics. My ass Democrats wanna get money outta politics. Who do you think is paying for Joe Biden's bills?

0 (14m 58s):
It's the unions. When they say big business runs Republican politics, first of all, that ain't true, but second of all, unions run democratic politics like in direct bribery fashion. They hire effectively Democrats to then negotiate with them at the table. It's an amazing scam that's been going on for decades on end. Another part of the scam is that the only employers in the United States who right now are benefiting our wait fort, wait fort, wait for it, the government. So we are getting rid of job creation in the private sector through Rich Union contracts, but we are definitely boosting more employment in the government sector, which of course is what Joe Biden would like. If you'd like to work for the government, now is an excellent time. We'll get to that momentarily.

Helix (15m 38s):
First, everybody knows I love my Helix mattress. Have you checked out their most high-end collection? The Helix Elite Helix has harnessed years of extensive mattress expertise to bring their customers a truly elevated sleep experience. The Helix Elite Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored four specific sleep positions and firmness preferences. I've had my Helix sleep mattress for I dunno, seven, eight years at this point. It's incredibly durable. It was made just for me, which means that it's firm but breathable, which is precisely what I need. If the mattress is too soft, I get back pain. I tend to heat up a lot at night, so I really need a breathable mattress. Helix made that happen for me. You can do the same with your own Helix sleep quiz. Just head on over to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. Take their two minute sleep quiz, find the perfect mattress for your body and sleep type. Your mattress will come directly to your door ship for free. Plus Helix has a 10 year warranty. You can try it out for a hundred nights at risk free. They'll even pick it up for you if you don't love it, but you will. Helix has over 12,005 star reviews their financing options. Flexible payment plans make it so a great night's sleep is never far away. Helix Labor Day Sale is still going on. They're currently offering 25% off all mattress orders plus two free pillows from Allers. Go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. Use code Helix partner 25. That's the best offer yet it's not gonna last long with Helix. Better sleep. It starts right now.

0 (16m 39s):
Well, there is one sector of the employment market that is growing by leaps and bounds, and that is government employment. Aren't you glad that you get to pay the taxes so the government can hire lots of people? According to the Wall Street Journal, while many companies have been cutting staff and freezing new hires this year, the government is laying out the welcome mat. Public sector jobs at the federal, state and local level have risen by 327,000 positions so far in 2023, according to the Bureau of labor statistics, that is approaching one fifth of all new American jobs created in the first eight months of the year. In contrast, public sector jobs accounted for 5% of employment growth during the during the equivalent period last year. If you look at public sector jobs as a percentage of payroll gains, this is the biggest number that we have seen in any given year since 2007.

0 (17m 21s):
2006 I mean it doesn't even go back that far. The chart, the Wall Street Journal is showing. So what we are watching here is the government basically subsidizing a bunch of people to come work for the government. Some of this is worthwhile because you actually need people working for US Customs and Border Protection as we'll see, the administration isn't allowing them to do their job, but they are hiring there. But there's also a ton of people who are just working in kind of make work programs for the government. Private sector employment is now 3.2 per two nine 9% over its pre pandemic level, but the public sector is struggling to shore up staffing and so they're just ratcheting up. They're ratcheting up the amount of money that they're paying people. So Joe Biden's Future Economy here is one in which you have a government job working a 32 hour work week with a public sector union pension paid for by the American taxpayer.

0 (18m 10s):
A growing public sector at the expense of a shrinking private sector is the future of this economy. And then you wonder why many Americans seem dissatisfied with this arrangement because it's basically the arrangement that lengthened the Great Depression by eight years during F D R tenure is the same arrangement that led to economic turmoil in the 1960s and 1970s under L B J and then under Richard Nixon that that would be the reason. So bad economic policy is, is part and parcel of what Joe Biden is doing right here. Combine that with Joe Biden's crappy immigration policy and you have a real, you have a real tempest on your hands at the same time that Joe Biden is making an unaffordable for people to live in this country, particularly at the lower end of the income scale. He continues to ship in millions of illegal immigrants and then release them into the interior over the weekend.

0 (18m 56s):
Fox's Griff Jenkins posted video of the so-called Pharaoh Max Train. It's an amazing video. These are all people who are headed up to the American border. They're coming from Zaka Mexico and they're cheering on route to the United States. Earlier the summer, the Biden administration, according to Mediaite ended the Donald Trump era immigration policy remained in Mexico, which required asylum seekers to wait in Mexico and the the administration has successfully incentivized literally thousands of people to hop on trains just head right for that border. Here's the video, why not Joe Biden is going to process them and release them into the interior of the United States. That's what's going to happen here.

0 (19m 37s):
We all know that These are not all people who are attempting to escape from tyranny countries. These are a lot of people who are looking for jobs and they're gonna come and welfare benefits and they're gonna come into the United States and that is what they're going to take advantage of. And meanwhile, by the way, Ima images of immigrants in cages are emerging from Tucson, Arizona thanks to Bill Mulligan. don don't, I don't see a o c crying anywhere near these cages. Anywhere you see these giant cages filled with people, all these people will be processed and let into the interior of the United States. That's Joe Biden's immigration policy. So if you are a low wage American, just understand that Joe Biden is importing an entire labor pool to take your job away from you in the private sector, simultaneously paying a bunch of middle class people in Northern Virginia to work for the federal government, blowing out the spending so as to increase inflation and paying off his union cronies.

0 (20m 26s):
And then you wonder why Americans aren't super fond of his economic policies. I can't imagine why in just one second we'll get to Joe Biden's absolutely discombobulated and immoral foreign policy.

Good Ranchers (20m 34s):
First, we have a lot on our schedules with how much we have to do every day. We've got the soccer practice and the science fairs and the prepping for the holidays and all of that. The good news is you can take one giant thing off your plate by putting great meat on your plate. With Good Ranchers, you care about what your family eats so, so does Good Ranchers. That's why they've spent years building relationships with local farms to source the best 100% American beef, chicken, pork canal, wild caught seafood as well. The best of the land and sea can now get conveniently delivered directly to your door. Right now, they're offering two years of free ground beef to anybody who subscribes. That is a $480 value. That is two years of free, high quality ground beef and a locked in price. No other meat company guarantees you 100% American meat and a locked in price because no one else is Good Ranchers. By the way, they made me a kosher steak one time. Lemme tell you, it's one of the best steaks I've ever eaten in my entire life. Go to Good Ranchers dot com today. Use my code Ben for 25 bucks off and free ground beef for two years. Remember, subscribe to any box and lock in your price on America's best meat for two whole years as well. That's Good Ranchers dot com Today. Use my code Ben for over 500 bucks in savings. Subscribe to Good Ranchers. It is indeed American Meat delivered. Go check them out right now. Good Ranchers dot com. Use code Ben. Get 25 bucks off and free ground beef for two years, a hell of a deal.

6 (21m 37s):
Okay, meanwhile, the Biden administration has now gone forward with its exchange, $6 billion in funding released to the Iranian Mullahs to the tyranny of Iran in exchange for five Americans. According to the UK Daily Mail. The five US prisoners released by Iran today as part of a controversial prisoner swap, have arrived in Doha, Qatar to begin their journey back to America, where one says he's eager to visit an Apple store to find out what the latest phones are.

0 (22m 1s):
After eight years behind bars, the prisoners were flown first from Tehran to Doha on a Qatar Airways jet. Today they're greeted on the tarmac at Doha by the US Ambassador to Qatar, Timmy Davis, the price of their freedom, $6 billion in frozen funds, the US seizes from Iran in 2018. Now that we claim that it'll be used for humanitarian purposes only, which is a complete lie. The the president of Iran said it as much recently. He was recently on with, with Lester Holt And. he was asked specifically about whether there are any restrictions on the uzeWf, the funds. He's like, Nope, we're gonna use it for whatever we damn well, please. Meanwhile, the administration continues to deny that there's anything to this at all. John Kirby, who's the national security spokesperson, he says, don't worry, we're not ignoring Iran's terrorist activities.

0 (22m 43s):
We're just ignoring Iran's terrorist activities.

8 (22m 47s):
How is US national security better today because of this deal and not worse off? As I've heard many Republicans say,

9 (22m 54s):
First of all, what's really better off are five families. So true. And I think that's really important to remember. Number two, as I said earlier, we, well, we just executed more sanctions on entities in Iran today, specifically for the offense of wrongfully detaining Americans. And just in the last couple of weeks we've upped our military presence in the Gulf region. We added some additional sanctions on Iran just a few days ago. I mean we are holding Iran to account and we are mindful of our national security interests in the region and we're doing everything we can, not just on the economic space, but even in the military space, to protect our troops, to protect our interests, to protect our allies and partners in that part of the world. No one should take away from today's events any idea that we are somehow turning a blind eye to what Iran is doing in the region or around the world.

9 (23m 39s):
Not at all. Quite the contrary.

0 (23m 40s):
Well, I mean quite the contrary. You'd be the second straight Democratic president to ship pallets of cash over to the Iranians. Effectively speaking, by the way, we also released a bunch of Iranian prisoners in the United States who are actual criminals, including one Iranian who was sentenced to 63 months in prison in 2021 for obtaining equipment that could be used in missiles, electronic warfare, nuclear weapons, and other military gear. Another Iranian and permanent residents of the United States who was charged in 2019 with allegedly stealing engineering plans from his employer to send to Iran, as well as another one who was arrested in February and sentenced to 30 months in prison for purchasing sophisticated top tier US electronic equipment and software through com front companies in the u a e. Meanwhile, John Kirby continues to maintain, don't worry, the regime is never gonna get their hands on this money, which is weird because they totally are.

0 (24m 26s):
That's what happens when you release money to criminals.

8 (24m 30s):
What can the United States do if it is seen that they're using this money not for food, not for medicine, for bad reasons, lock

9 (24m 37s):
It back down. We can stop a transaction. It's important to remember, Kate, that the,

0 (24m 42s):
Yeah, I believe that

9 (24m 42s):
The regime doesn't get the money, that they can request a withdrawal for humanitarian goods, agricultural products, medical supplies, food, and then we will run a process through which those goods are contracted for. The Iranians don't even get to let the contracts. We'll make sure that the contracts are let with vendors that we know we can trust, and then that material will be delivered to the Iranian people. The Iranian regime does not get hands on this money.

0 (25m 6s):
There's nothing that America does better than foreign aid going directly to the sources that we're seeking to get it to. I'm being incredibly sarcastic right now. The amount of money that we waste every year on fraud and graph that goes directly to dictators all over the world is insane. It's hundreds of millions of dollars. There's a reason that Yassar Raffa ended up the richest guy in the Palestinian authority. He wouldn't give that money to all of his, all of his subjects. And the same thing is happening over and around. By the way, money is fungible. Let's assume for a second that he's right. Let's assume that $6 billion goes for humanitarian aid, that $6 billion, Iran now doesn't have to spend on that stuff and they now spend on giving missiles to Hezbollah. It. It's just an absurdity. But this administration on foreign policy is an absurdity in terms of other absurdities in this administration. By the way, Joe Biden continues to mock Republicans on the impeachment stuff.

0 (25m 49s):
Now our Republicans gonna be able to achieve the impeachment of of Joe Biden. Now, don don't know whether they're gonna be able to even achieve it in the house. don don't know whether they have a majority in the house. I would assume that at the end of the day, McCarthy is somehow gonna wrangle a bare majority to impeach Biden and You know that'll, that'll have an impact on Biden. Is he gonna actually be removed from office by a Democratic Senate? Of course not. Of course not. But that's not the point. The point is there's gonna be a lot of damaging material about Joe's corruption from now up till election day. And Joe Biden is absolutely blind about the whole time thing, which is, which is pretty shocking.

10 (26m 20s):
Moments ago, the President reacting with defiance when asked about the new House impeachment inquiry as he arrived back at the White House,

0 (26m 31s):
God, he can't even walk

7 (26m 33s):
Impeachment inquiry into you

0 (26m 38s):
Luck's luck. That's what it's luck, by the way now, now that I watch Joe Biden walking around, I, I cannot get Donald Trump's description of Joe Biden outta my head. It is an excellent description. He says he always looks like he's walking on a bed of toothpicks. Yep, he definitely, definitely does. By the way, Hunter has somehow come up with the money to sue the I r s, which is exciting stuff. Remember, he doesn't have enough money to pay his baby mama, but he does have enough money to sue the I r s alleging his Privacy rights were violated when agents aired concern to Congress in the media about the handling of the investigation into his taxes and business dealings. Well, that's actually whistleblowers coming forward to allege bad behavior. That is a thing that is happening. You know whose actual tax returns were leaked to the media. Donald Trump's you recall, it turns out there wasn't anything particularly untoward in them.

0 (27m 19s):
But, it is totally crazy to me how the i r s routinely leaks tax records of various people on the right to ProPublica or wherever, but Hunter is mad apparently that Hunter is, is angry that whistleblowers pointed out that he was getting a sweetheart deal from the i r s pretty amazing stuff. And a second we'll get to Republicans, be clowning themselves.

PreBorn! (27m 43s):
Speaking of people be clowning themselves, the medical establishment has been be clowning itself on the issue of abortion for literally decades, many doctors won callous because it seems surreal to think that over 64 million babies have been killed. PreBorn will not stand silent, nor should we. We can't stand by and let babies die at the hands of abortion. This is why PreBorn exists to stand up for those who cannot defend themselves. The only defense for these precious babies is their heartbeat, which begins at just three weeks and can be heard on ultrasound by five weeks. When a mom making that ultimate choice, here's her baby's heartbeat and seizes the precious life in her. The majority of the time. She will choose life by sponsoring an ultrasound for mom. You are being the voice of the PreBorn. Please join PreBorn in the cause of life for just 28 bucks. You can be the difference between the life and death of a child. These ultrasounds, they're basically magic I mean they're amazing. The technology is incredible. We met all four of our kids long before they were born. It changes your perspective on what life is like in the womb when you can actually see your baby's face. To donate Dow pound two 50, say keyword baby. That's pound two five zero baby. Or go to PreBorn dot com slash Ben. That's PreBorn dot com slash Ben once more, PreBorn dot com slash Ben.

0 (28m 43s):
Okay. Meanwhile, the G p i I'm not sure if they're running out of rakes to step on. You would imagine at some point they might, I have some bad news from the world of love. Apparently, Lauren Bobert, the congressman from Colorado, who is lasting, barely winning a, a reelect to her Colorado seat. Well now she has broken up with, with her beloved, not, not her husband of 18 years with whom she has multiple children. No, no, no. We're talking about the Democrat bar owner who runs like gay pride events and drag queen story hour over there. And you'll recall that she went to the musical Beatle Jews where she proceeded to vape and then proceeded to get herself groped and then grop her date in return pleasuring him over You know, I'm not going to get more, more detail, but that is a thing that happened in public.

0 (29m 30s):
She was then kicked out to which she apparently said, You know who I am and denied that anything like this had happened to which they then released all of the camera footage. Well, now sadly, romance is dead. Folks, I regret to inform you that if this romance can't last, I'm not sure what romance can. Lauren Bobert has now parted ways with the man seen groping her during a frisky date at a Colorado theater while enjoying a family friendly performance of the musical Beetlejuice. He's self-described eccentric politician is exec. It's eccentricity now to, to grope your date in the middle of a performance of Beetlejuice. Guys, that's now eccentric. That's good to know. All future date nights have been canceled between her and bar owner Quinn Gallagher. She said, I learned to check party affiliations before you go on a date.

0 (30m 10s):
Although she alluded to her date's affiliation as a Democrat, the G, o p stalwarts said the breakup had nothing to do with the various reports on Gallagher in recent days. She said he's a wonderful man who's a great time to go out and have dinner and enjoy part of a show. Nothing to do with anything that anyone reported. Honestly, he's a private citizen. We peacefully parted. Great man, great friend. I wish him all the best. Now I have a question. There were some reports that they had not been dating very long, and when I say not very long, there was one report suggesting that this was like their first date, which oh boy. Like wow, wow. Family value's taking it right on the shin right there. Not good stuff there. That, that, that is bad.

0 (30m 51s):
Meanwhile, in other not good for the G o p news, apparently President Trump wrote to-do lists for his assistant on White House documents marked classified Don don't know man. I, I I dunno what to tell you. I don. Yes, Hillary Clinton mistreated classified documents. Yes, she should have been prosecuted. And yes, Donald Trump should not be writing to-do lists on the back of like, here's our ran attack plan. Also, I would like more Diet Coke, please. Three Diet Cokes on the back of the run attack plan. According to a b, C news, one of former President Trump's longtime assistants told federal investigators that Trump repeatedly wrote to-do list for her on documents from the White House that were marked classified.

0 (31m 32s):
Maybe just wander a cycle. He's just too much of an environmentalist. You know, got a bunch of paper, gotta do something with it. As described to a b c news, the aid, Molly Michael told investigators that more than once she received requests or taskings from Trump that were written on the back of note cards, she later recognized those note cards as sensitive White House materials with visible classification markings used to brief Trump while he was still in office about phone calls with foreign leaders or other international related matters. And so that, that's just, that's spectacular. That's spectacular. In 2018, Michael became Trump's executive assistant in the White House. She continued to work for him when Trump left office. She resigned last year in the wake of Trump's alleged refusal to comply with the federal request in the FBI's subsequent search of Mar-a-Lago.

0 (32m 13s):
Michael recounted by late 2021 as many of 90 boxes materials from Trump's time as president were moved into a basement storage room at Mar-a-Lago. And apparently they say like, this is very easily disprovable, but yeah, this is my but, and no one's disproved it yet. That's that. Oh yeah, yeah. That's how important the classified documents were. Had to write some shopping lists on it. Okay? But don't worry, the clowning doesn't end there. Republicans are hell bent on running directly into a wall at full speed, which is presumably many of the Republicans plan on this government shutdown. Again, if you are asking for like a moderate cut and you might get part of that moderate cut in a government shutdown negotiation, alright?

0 (32m 54s):
But if your plan is let's just run directly into a government shutdown, get blamed for everybody by that for that, and then lose the house on the basis of that, which is very likely what could happen. I'm wondering about your strategic choices. Again, I'm, I'm gonna point out again, I'm more fiscally conservative than pretty much anyone in Congress. I'm certainly more conservative than many of the people who consider themselves mag or Republicans, right? I wanna restructure social security. I restructure Medicare and I make no bones about it. That's why it's gonna bankrupt the United States. But there's also such a thing as tactical, as tactical competence. And it turns out that the tactics that are currently being used are not particularly smart. According to the New York Times, the Speaker Kevin McCarthy's bid to gain the upper hand in a battle over federal spending hit stiff opposition from within his own ranks on Monday, leaving him with dwindling options and little time to find his way out of a funding impasse that could lead to a government shutdown in less than two weeks, roughly a dozen Republicans made it clear they were staunchly opposed to the proposal unveiled on Sunday, which combines a stopgap spending measure with steep funding cuts and new border controls indicating they could not be induced to change their votes through leadership pressure.

0 (33m 52s):
The measure wasn't gonna pass the Democratic controlled Senate anyway, but McCarthy was then gonna use that as the basis for some sort of compromise with Democrats. It, it doesn't matter. We're just gonna run directly into a wall and the only loser here presumably will be the Republican party because Democrats are not gonna be punished for Republicans not even being able to come to an agreement on what they want the basis for negotiations to be. So all of this is going just amazingly, amazingly well. Okay, in just one second, we'll get to what is pretty obviously the worst story of the day. A breaking report on Tim Ballard, the inspiration for Sound of Freedom.

Black Rifle Coffee Company (34m 23s):
First, my team knows I need to have my black Rifle Coffee every single morning. If you didn't know, I have four kids plus a dog, which means very low on the energy from time to time, which means I'm deeply reliant at this point on my Black Rifle Coffee. Not only do they have their ready to drink cans for people with no time to brew coffee in the traditional way, their coffee subscription gives you the chance to purchase limited edition flavors. Black Rifle Coffee subscription gives you nothing but the best. It's a Coffee of the Month Club where you get premium roast from the Best Farms worldwide. Every month you'll get a new exotic roast shipped to your door, each with a unique origin and killer bag designed with a matching sticker. Black Rle Coffee just launched their Halloween pumpkin spice collection featuring the headless horseman's roast and the ready to drink pumpkin spice espresso. Michael Knowles will be absolutely ecstatic with pumpkin spice flavor. So good it will haunt your taste buds for all eternity, stop running out of coffee. Sign up for a coffee club subscription. Have black Rifle Coffee delivered straight to your door on a schedule. Go to black Rifle Coffee dot com. Use promo code Shapiro, check out for 10% off your order. That is black Rifle Coffee dot com. Use promo code Shapiro for 10% off Black Rifle Coffee is indeed America's coffee. Go check them out right now. Again, black Rifle Coffee dot com use promo code Shapiro get 10% off.

0 (35m 27s):
Also You know we have Jordan Peterson over here at Daily Wire plus he's got tons of amazing stuff. So go subscribe because again, Daily Wire Plus stacked with tons of Jordan Peterson content, you can't get it literally anywhere else. He's created a ton of new work including Vision and Destiny, marriage dragons, monsters, and men, all sorts of amazing stuff. He's got logos and literacy. He's got his groundbreaking series on the book of Exodus. That's only the beginning. We haven't even talked about his Beyond Order lecture series. For everything Jordan Peterson related, like Infinite Jordan Peterson content, go to Daily Wire Plus right now, become a member. You'll embark on an unforgettable experience that will fuel your thirst for knowledge, inspire personal growth like never before. Head over to Daily Wire dot com slash subscribe and become a member today, alrightyy. So meanwhile, worst story of the day, Tim Ballard is of course a person we've interviewed on the show.

0 (36m 10s):
Tim Ballard was the man who's the inspiration for the fantastic film Sound of Freedom. Well now, according to vice.com, Tim Ballard's exit from Operation Underground Railroad earlier this year followed an investigation into claims of sexual misconduct, including seven women according to sources with direct knowledge of the organization. Again, we're gonna have to see if all these charges are confirmed. I always create that caveat because you just don't know until the facts are all out there. Sources familiar with the situation said the self-styled anti-slavery activist who appears to be preparing for a Senate run, invited women to ask Act as his wife on undercover overseas missions ostensibly aimed at rescuing victims of sex trafficking, who would then allegedly coerced those women to sharing a bed or showering together, claiming that it was necessary to full traffickers Ballard, who's played by Jim in the hit film.

0 (36m 52s):
Sound of Freedom is said to have sent at least one woman a photo of himself in his underwear, feto with fake tattoos, and to ask another how far she was willing to go to save children. Those sources requested anonymity because they fear retaliation. The total number of women involved is believed to be higher than seven. One source close to the organization has detailed knowledge, Ballard making sexual advances to a volunteer using methods similar to those he allegedly used with employees. Those methods are also consistent with his conduct toward another former employee who spoke to Vice News, a spokesperson for Operation Underground Railroad told Vice Tim Ballard resigned from the organization on June 22nd, 2023. Three. He has permanently separated from O U R O U R is not gonna make any further than public comments at this time to preserve the integrity of its investigation.

0 (37m 33s):
This obviously is a horrifying report and You know we'll see the details as they, as they come out. According to an anonymous letter that's been circulating in the Utah philanthropic community, they say, quote, it was ultimately revealed through disturbingly specific and parallel accounts that Tim has been deceitfully and extensively grooming and manipulating multiple women for the past few years with the ultimate intent of coercing them to participate in sexual acts with him under a premise of going where it takes and doing whatever it takes to save a child. Women believe to be at the center of the investigation, have not respondent to request for comment at this point. So we have anonymous allegations at this point that are made to vice. We're going to, we're going to have to wait to see what comes out about this. And so I'm going to reserve further comment until more confirmation is presented at this time.

0 (38m 16s):
For what it's worth, the the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, the Mormon Church, they've removed all articles promoting at Ballard and the nonprofit that he founded when all this came out. This came out the same day, the church released a statement citing betrayal and condemning ballad for morally unacceptable behavior, which makes it sound a little more real than merely an anonymous report that is truly bad stuff. Glen Beck, who's one of Ballard's partners, indicated on social media that Ballard had been, quote, effectively excommunicated from the church through ambiguous but unquestionably damning statements without being given adequate notice or the ability to respond. So again, I'm gonna wait to see more come out before I comment more extensively on this particular subject. But obviously it's in the news and worthy of coverage.

0 (38m 57s):
Meanwhile, in entertainment news that is essentially being ignored by, by pretty much everybody except for the Wright Hassan Minhaj, who is a, a pretty famous comedian. He apparently has basically just been making up stories about himself about how horrifying American racism is. As Alki points out a profile in the New Yorker of Minhaj says in Minhaj approach to comedy, he leans heavily on his own experience as an Asian American and Muslim American telling harrowing stories of law enforcement, entrapment and personal threats. For many of his fans, he's become an avatar of the power of representation and entertainment. But after many weeks of trying, I had been unable to confirm some of the stories he had told on stage. And then when the author confronted him and Minhaj admitted that the stories that he tells on stage are often exaggerated or made up, well, I mean some of these stories are just purely intended to paint America in the worst possible light.

0 (39m 49s):
And they're completely made up. It's not resulting in tremendous blowback from Minhaj. One of his anecdotes apparently claims a white woman from high school stood him up for a prom because her family didn't want her to take pictures with a brown boy. Minhaj then disclosed identifiable details about the woman during his telling of the story, prompting his fans to harass her. The woman apparently addressed the threats with Minhaj, who then told her to scrub her social media presence to deter more threats. You know it. It's one thing to exaggerate You know family stories for comedic effect. It's something a lot of people do. It's another thing to make up out of whole cloth stories about the evils of American racism. Th th this, this You know effectively borders on emotional fraud and, and the fact that there are so many people out there in Hollywood who are making excuses for him.

0 (40m 34s):
People like Whoopi Goldberg out there suggesting that this is totally fine again, would Whoopi Goldberg say that about anyone else? I have, I have a difficult time believing that she would Whoopi Goldberg's defense of him is that this is what we do, quote. That's what we do. We tell stories and we embellish them. Goldberg said that she recalled a time when a reporter called to fact check one of her standups, in which she said she had grief from N Y U. She told the reporter she did not have a grief from the university and never said she did before realizing he was referring to one of her standup characters. But that's not exactly what's happening here. Raymond Minhaj tells stories that are ostensibly about himself and those stories are false, and they're inherently tied to the idea that America's a deeply evil and racist place. If you're gonna make those sorts of claims, presumably you should have some sort of backing for them.

0 (41m 19s):
And the fact that he had to make up the stories in the first place is pretty good evidence that America is not remotely as racist and horrifying as Minhaj suggests for laughs in profit. And leftism is a very, very lucrative point of view for comedians. That's how get a, that's how you get a comedy central special. That's how you end up being extremely rich and extremely famous. He says, every story in my style is built around a seat of truth. My comedy, Arnold Palmer is 70% emotional truth. This happened. And then 30% hyperbole, exaggeration, and fiction. He says, the punchline is worth the fictionalized premise, but You know how is there a punchline to my daughter was exposed to a substance that could have been anthrax, which is one of the things that he actually said at one point.

0 (42m 1s):
Now, that's not something that you are supposed to fabricate, especially as a person who has received powder in the mail, at least twice, as far as I'm aware, the f b i is still investigating a case like this. That's not a story that you make up or embellish, that's just it. That's either a reality or it's not. And this is also part of the problem with our new comedic, our new comedic world, which plays kind of clown nose on clown nose off. I'm a comedian, but I'm telling deep and meaningful truths about the world to you. How about your comedian? You tell jokes every, you're a comedian, you tell funny stories, but that's not what comedy is anymore. Our com our comedians are supposed to be newscasters and our newscasters are supposed to be comedians. One of the great ironies of of John Stewart attack and crossfire back in the early two thousands, which at that point was Paul Bal and Tucker Carlson, is that this has led to the temptation for comedians to basically become newscasters and newscasters to play John Stewart.

0 (42m 52s):
Everyone has become, they've converged on John Stewart. Basically Hassan Minhaj is now John Stewart telling meaningful stories about his life that are completely made up to expose the evils of the United States of America and how racist it is. And then when he is caught on that, we're all supposed to pretend that it's no big deal at all. Okay, speaking of things that are unbelievably stupid, the, the Senate Majority Leader has now declared that there will be no informal dress code for the Senate Chamber. Why? Because John Fetterman likes to wear the clothes of the homeless. Apparently we have to be nice to, to Mongo over here, and that requires that we, that, that there'd be no dress code in the Senate anymore. According to the New York Times and the tradition at bound halls of the Senate, customs die hard rules can be next to impossible to change on Monday with a potential government shutdown days away, a newly begun impeachment inquiry and lawmakers preparing for a visit from the President of Ukraine, A major change at the capital of Buzz for the first time in centuries, lawmakers are no longer expected to suit up, to conduct a business on the Senate floor.

0 (43m 44s):
From now on, members are allowed to take a more business casual approach to the work wear. Not the staff by the way, and not guests. Only if you're a senator, do you get this, this special dispensation. The modification is in many ways about a reality. In recent years, there have been plenty of senators who have departed from the suit and tie uniform that for decades was considered the only acceptable attire and most clearly are flex. The influence of John Fetterman, the six foot eight tattooed brain damaged first term Democrat from Pennsylvania. He, he's on a suit and tie for his first months in Congress, but now he's just wearing around gym shorts and Carhartt sweatshirts. Now we're changing the entire rule of the Senate in order to make nice with a dude who does not want to actually You know, just wear a suit.

0 (44m 24s):
Pretty ridiculous. But that is where we are in, in American public life because pretty much everything is a mockery at this point. Time for some things I like and some things that I hate. So things that I like. Today, a lot of states are now starting to cut ties with the American Library Association, which is utterly appropriate considering that the A L A is now a left-wing interest group. Like so many of our public institutions, Senator Mike Lee, according to the Washington Post, has now targeted the A l a. When it was his turn to question witnesses, he called up a video of Deborah Caldwell, Stone's, director of the American Library Association's Office for Intellectual Freedom. In a zoom call, Caldwell Stone had been recorded arguing book advocates should reframe the book challenges. This debate should not center on whether titles are sexually inappropriate for minors at Caldwell Stone. It should be about diverse materials that are about everyone's right to see themselves in their families reflected on bookshelves.

0 (45m 10s):
Lee then said, the goal is to sexualize children to provide minors with sexually explicit material and then hide this content from parents. The A l A is now facing a partisan firefight, unlike anything in its almost 150 year history, says the Washington Post. I wonder who brought that up, who made that firefight happen? I love that. We now like it is a full-time sport. Now the, we will do something unbelievably terrible and provocative. And if you notice, you're the one starting a firefight. The once un uncontroversial organization, which says it's the world's largest and oldest library association and which provides funding, training, and tools to most of the country's 123,000 libraries has become entangled in the education culture wars, the raging debates over what and how to teach about race, sex, and gender, culminating in Tuesday's. Senatorial name check like Lee. Politicians and parents on the right increasingly paint the association known as the A l a as a defender of pornographic literature for children, tying their allegations into a broader conservative movement that asserts school libraries are filled with sexually explicit, inappropriate texts.

0 (46m 2s):
A 2022 tweet in which the organization's president calls herself a Marxist lesbian added to the concerns. Well, you think you think I love that. So it's that the problem is not that the ALA's president calls herself a Marxist lesbian. The problem is that every anyone noticed that She tweeted that out publicly. Over the summer state libraries in Montana, Missouri, and Texas announced they were suffering ties with the A L A, which is good. They should. Meanwhile, librarians and those on the political left are defending the A l A as a key provider of money and skills for librarians in particular, they're setting an A l A report. Tracking 1,269 attempts to remove library books in 2022. The highest number of challenges to books since the A L A began compiling stats on the issue.

0 (46m 41s):
What are the issues? They're all related to lfVtwK plus minus divided by sign books directed at kids. Well, good, good for parents for finally waking up and taking notice. The fact that this is somehow considered an instance of right-wing radicalism is truly an astonishing and silly thing. Okay, time for a quick thing that I hate. So for all of those people who believe that there is no correlation whatsoever between politics, ideology, religion, and sexual practice or sexual identity, I'm just gonna point out that that's completely false. That is a lie. It is untrue. It was always untrue. The notion that sexual activity or sexual identity are inherently written into the D n a unchangeable, unchanging, non-affected by environment, non-affected by by any other mode of human behavior.

0 (47m 28s):
Just written in the same way that melanin level is written into your skin. That's a lie. Brand new study out from Brad Wilcox and the Fire and Ryan Burge. It shows sexual orientation by religion. And now here's what you would imagine. You imagine there would not be major gaps in terms of sexual identity by religion and you might imagine some gaps, but not massive gaps because after all, I mean like you would imagine that if it's biologically ingrained sexual identity and sexual behavior, biologic purely biologically ingrained, it would fall like the reign upon all equally. But that's not what you see. Now, the accounts are argument here is that people are leaving particular forms of religion.

0 (48m 9s):
If they're L G B T Q for example, and they're moving into other categories, that's possible. I don't think it's totally plausible considering the size of these gaps. So for example, if you are Muslim, 85% of Muslims identify as straight 8%, identify as quote unquote something else. Don't dunno what something else amounts to, but a negligible percentage, right? That 85 plus eight is 93 7% identify as either gay and lesbian or bisexual. Among Protestants, 84% identify as straight Catholics, 83% identify as straight Hindu, 82% identify as straight L d s, 78% identify as straight. And then you start getting into the more atheistic groups.

0 (48m 50s):
So Jewish is, is generally people who identify as Jewish. Very often they're not religious in any particular way. Only 65% identify as straight 15%, identify as bisexual, 6% identify as gay and lesbian, 21% plus 14 who identify as something else. If you are an atheist, fully, 45% of atheists say they're not straight. 45% tell me there's no linkage between environment, ideology and sexual behavior and identity. And it's all biologically ingrained. Sure, sure it is. It's You know that that lie, which is which lies at the root of the entire L G B T Q movement to equate itself with the racial civil rights movement has been a lie since inception and remains a lie today.

0 (49m 37s):
That is purely a matter of genetics and never a matter of environment. And that behavior itself is exactly the same as a biological component like melanin and skin, absolute silliness. Okay, one more thing that I hate. So apparently the Rolling Stone co-founder, Jan Winter, has been removed from the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame board. Why? While he wrote a book and this book is about a bunch of great rock and roll artists. The problem is they picked seven white dudes to profile, which is bad, apparently you're not allowed to do that because he was asked about it and he was asked to quote, acknowledge the performers of color and women performers are just not in your zeitgeist.

0 (50m 21s):
And winner said insofar as the women, just none of them were as articulate on this intellectual level. And then none of the female or black musicians met his criteria as philosophers of rock rather than just creative geniuses. This provokes a major reaction. He said at one point, You know, just for public relations sake, maybe I should have gone and found one black and one woman artist to include here that didn't measure up to that same historical standard. Just to avert this kind of criticism. Mr. Winter's comments, according to the New York Times, were an immediate reaction with his quotes mocked on social media and passed criticisms, unearth of Rolling Stone's, coverage of female artists under winner and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame has now effectively kicked him off. So that is, that is what they do now.

0 (50m 60s):
So, so in other words, it turns out that the seven men that he picked, he thinks they're the best. They ended up being seven white men. He's not saying that women are not capable of being great artists. He's not saying that black people are not capable of being philosophers of rock. He's saying that the seven philosophers of rock who are the best, are not black and are not women. I'm not sure why that is like super duper crazy. Maybe that's the way he sees it. Others can obviously disagree, but that's like if you are asked to name today who are the greatest classical composers of all time, and you're like Beethoven, Bach, Brahms, Mozart, all white men, does this make you some sort of anti-feminist radical or anti-black radical?

0 (51m 41s):
You're not even saying that if given the same opportunities, there wouldn't have been a black Beethoven. You're just saying that Beethoven was the best. I don don't, I don't even understand the critique, but that's the way that it works. He's right. By the way, if you had just placed one black woman in the compendium, everybody would've left him alone, which is truly an incredible thing. Alrighty, coming up, we're gonna jump into the Vaunted Ben Shapiro Show Mailbags and make sure that you're a subscriber over at Daily Wire plus.com. Become member Use Coach Shapiro checkout. Get two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.