Bena Bone (0s):
Is your dog chomping on your sneakers while you're busy tuning in? Toss 'em up. Bena Bone Made right here in the USA. Beone Chew toys are bursting with S slobber worthy flavors like real bacon. And since dogs don't have thumbs, we made 'em paw friendly to get a good chew going, use discount code dog thirty@beone.com for 30% off every bone on the site. That's dog 30 for 30% off everything@beone.com. Your tennis shoes. We'll thank you.

ExpressVPN (32s):
The show's s sponsored by ExpressVPN. It's time to stand up against big tech. Protect our data at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (37s):
Yesterday sent a majority leader Chuck Schumer of New York took to the floor of the Senate to decry antisemitism. Schumer is not an amazing source on this particular topic. given his consistent support of the Middle East policies of the most antisemitic president in modern American history, Barack Obama Nonetheless. He spoke about the threat of antisemitism and in a rare moment of quasi honesty, he actually mentioned the problem of antisemitism among liberals. Here's what he had to say.

2 (1m 3s):
I feel compelled to speak because I'm the highest ranking Jewish elected official in America. in fact, the highest ranking Jewish elected official ever in American history and I have noticed a significant disparity be between how Jewish people regard the rise of antisemitism and how many of my non-Jewish friends regard it anti-Semites are taking advantage of the pro-Palestinian movement to esti espouse hatred and bigotry towards Jewish people. But rather than call out this dangerous behavior for what it is, we see so many of our friends and fellow citizens, particularly young people who yearn for justice unknowingly aiding and abetting their cause.

1 (1m 52s):
Note the language there. There are people hijacking the pro-Palestinian movement. They're hijacking it. The young people, they're, they're so good-hearted, they just don't know what they do. Schumer actually explained that the phrase from the river to the sea, a genocidal call to destroy all Jews was actually just ignorance. Plenty of people, Schumer actually said, chant that phrase quote, not because they hate Jewish people, but because they support a better future for Palestinians. Of course, that is a lie and it's a particularly egregious lie when Schumer himself has had zero to say about anti-Semite, Rashida Lib and Han Omar inside his own caucus. for example, there were some people last night, chaing from the river to the sea in New York City while they attempted to stop the lighting of the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center last night.

1 (2m 32s):
Do these look like good-hearted but slightly misinformed people to you give people attacking police officers right outside Rockefeller Center? Don't worry. According Chuck Schumer, they're just too passionate about the pro-Palestinian cause they, they're not antisemitic, they're not radical in any way. They're just ignorant. You know, liberals, they're never the bad guys. According to Chuck Schumer, what we're watching is precisely the mentality created by the world of leftist ideology. And Schumer knows that, but he has to lie about it because to recognize the roots of left wing antisemitism would be to destroy the progressive ideology wholesale.

1 (3m 20s):
That leftist ideology is based on a matrix of oppressor versus oppressed. That in any given situation, the powerless are oppressed and the powerful are the oppressors that oppressor oppressed matrix maps directly onto anti-Semitic conspiracy theories about Jewish power. Jews are pseudo white because Jews are financially well off and Israel is disproportionately successful in a really unsuccessful region of the world. The oppressor oppressed matrix simply doesn't fit the Jews who are actually being victimized by widespread Jew hatred in the Middle East and abroad, but who also are very successful. So the left keeps pushing the lie. That's also true of the Anti-Defamation League, which put out a poll yesterday with Hillel International, which is a college group asking college students if diversity, equity and Inclusion should cover anti-Jewish prejudice, diversity equity, and Inclusion DEI is the rubric under which the left pushes the idea that unequal group outcomes are the result of systemic discrimination.

1 (4m 12s):
So by that math, Jews are the beneficiaries of systemic discrimination because of course they're disproportionately successful. DEI simply cannot include Jews because de i's basic logic forbids it. DEI opposes meritocracy. It opposes performance, it opposes success. Nonetheless the 84% of Jewish students and 75% of non-Jewish college students said Jews should be included in DEI training that Jews should be somehow included in the oppressor oppressed matrix on the side of the oppressed. Of course, these students say that. What else exactly would they say? The premise of the question is so deeply flawed. Only one answer is possible to say that Jews shouldn't be included in DEI would be to discriminate against Jews, which violates the supposed basis of DEI itself.

1 (4m 53s):
But to include Jews explodes the entire DEI superstructure because again, DEI is based on the idea of oppressor versus oppressed. And if Jews are included on the side of the oppressed, how are they so successful? So these students are saying what they're expected to say. Sure, the Jews can be included in the victim class without recognizing the central truth of DEI. It is a scam. Victimhood is not inherently connected to level of success. Sometimes the powerless are evil. Sometimes the powerful are good. Sometimes the powerless are actually victimizers. Sometimes the powerful are the victims. You can't fight antisemitism with DEI. You can only increase antisemitism with DEI because the entire framework is a conspiracy theory. The only way to truly fight antisemitism is to recognize what the Bible says in Deuteronomy.

1 (5m 37s):
Quote, you shall not be partial to the poor or defer to the great, but in righteousness shall you judge your neighbor. But that's the one thing Chuck Schumer and the ADL will never say, because again, it would violate their ideology. Instead, people on the left will pretend the true antisemitism doesn't lie in oppressor oppressed matrices, but in people like Elon Musk, and they'll target him specifically because he doesn't like DEI, they'll claim that DEI is the way to fight antisemitism. So if Elon Musk fights DEI, that means he's bad. They'll slander him as an antisemite. Even as he goes to Israel to express solidarity with the families of murdered Jews, they'll try to activate advertisers to pull their money from Twitter supposedly, because Elon Musk is the root of all antisemitic evil. Elon Musk, to his credit, is fighting back against this.

1 (6m 18s):
Here's a clip yesterday of Elon Musk. It's an absolute classic. He was being asked about advertisers canceling because they don't like his politics. Here is what he had to say to Andrew Ross Sorkin over a deal book in at at the New York Times

4 (6m 30s):
Apology tour, if you will. This had been said online. There was all of the criticism, there was advertisers leaving. We talked to Bob Igar today. I

5 (6m 39s):
I, hope they stop you hope don't advertise.

4 (6m 43s):
You don't want them to advertise.

5 (6m 44s):
No.

4 (6m 44s):
What do you mean?

5 (6m 48s):
If somebody's gonna try to blackmail me with advertising, blackmail me with money, go yourself, but go yourself. Is that clear? I I. Hope it is. Hey Bob.

1 (7m 6s):
Hey Bob is a reference to Bob Iger who's in the audience. He's the head of Disney. All the people pushing DEI are the exact same people seeking to boycott Mosque are the exact same people who are seeking to pussyfoot around Hamas' feelings like right now. The Venn diagram of that group is a circle. That circle is the true threat to Jews in Israel and in the West. In just one second, we'll get to the latest from Israel where the tenuous ceasefire, the break seems to be on the rocks specifically because Kamas is, you know, murdering Jews. Again, we'll get to that momentarily

Pure Talk (7m 36s):
first. Pure Talk has you covered for the holidays with a free Moto G 5G phone. No gimmicks, no trade-in necessary. Just sign up for Pure Talk's, unlimited talk, unlimited text, 15 gigs of data. you can get all of that for just 35 bucks. You'll get the Moto G 5G phone for free. But here's the deal, you need to move fast because these phones are almost gone. So if your current phone is on life support, upgrade for free with Pure Talk, the new Moto G 5G, both a two-Day Battery life, an exceptional quad pixel camera, and a whole lot more. Pure Talk. It gives you America's most dependable 5G network at half the price. So make the switch today. Just go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Get this exclusive offer. Select the plan that's right for your family. Remember Pure Talk gives you America's Most Dependable 5G network at half the price. So make that switch today. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. You can claim your free Moto G 5G phone with a qualifying plan. Again, that's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Pure Talk is simply Smarter Wireless. I'm using Pure Talk for like a couple years at this point. They're great. Their coverage is excellent. If it's good enough for me, it's certainly good enough for you as well. Check them out right now. Pure Talk dot com slash SHAPIRO. That's Pure Talk dot com slash SHAPIRO.

1 (8m 41s):
Okay, now speaking of the latest in Israel. So Anthony Blinken, who's the Secretary of State, has traveled over to Israel in attempt to extend this ceasefire here he was yesterday explaining that he'd like to see the pause that has been created by negotiations between Israel and Hamas via Qatar. They, they wanna see that extended, so more hostages are released. The, the big question here is whether this is a prelude to Western pressure for Israel to end its offensive against Hamas completely, which is insane as we'll talk about momentarily. Here is blinking. Yesterday

6 (9m 10s):
We'd like to see the pause extended because what it is enabled, first and foremost is hostages being released. It's also enabled us to, to serve humanitarian assistance into the people of Gaza who so desperately need it.

1 (9m 24s):
Okay, so yeah, again, the, the idea here is, is that just a pause does, does the United States suddenly expect it? Israel is going to stop what it's doing. Israel cannot stop what it's doing. And in fact, they came very close to ending the ceasefire last night because Hamas literally waited until five minutes before the deadline to come up with new hostages. And what, what Hamas is doing right now is so unbelievably evil. It, it's as evil as what they did on October 7th. It's just in slow motion. So on October 7th, they murdered 1200 people and they kidnapped another 240. And now they're separating families out. They're saying that some people are dead who are still alive. There's some pe they're saying some people who are alive are, are actually dead and, and meanwhile they're pursuing terror attacks. So literally this morning in Israel Israel time, there was a terror attack.

1 (10m 8s):
It was in the, a major tr, highly trafficked street corner in Jerusalem at a bus stop. And you can see these are two brothers from East Jerusalem who identify with Hamas. Hamas took credit for this attack. They get out of their car and they just start mowing down a bunch of people who are at a bus stop. They ended up killing three people, including a pregnant 24-year-old woman. They were shot by people who are on the scene, reserves, who showed up with their guns, a a, a civilian who was off duty and who ended up shooting them. Three dead, six injured, supposedly this is in the middle of ACS fire. Kamas took full credit for this.

1 (10m 49s):
Kamas says this is a good thing and yet Israel is supposed to keep going with some sort of pause to get the hostages out. I gotta say there is a moral question as to whether Israel should or can continue to do this sort of routine because again, what's happened to the hostages is horrible and evil and continues to be horrible and evil At the same time, is the life of a hostage any more valuable than the life of that 24-year-old pregnant woman who's just murdered on a straight corner in Jerusalem, which presumably would not have happened if Israel were continuing its military operations to defend a straight Hamas. Speaking of the treatment of the hostages, it's amazing to watch as world and international organizations pretend that the hostages were treated well in some way. Elon Levy, who's the spokesperson for the Israeli government, he says, no, the hostages were not in fact held in reasonable conditions.

7 (11m 35s):
As the survivors of Hamas captivity return home over the last week, we're beginning to discover new chilling details about life as Hamas hostages. I'm of course not at liberty to share information from the official investigations, but the evidence that the families have been sharing with the media is chilling. The hostages were not held in reasonable conditions as some have cynically claimed. Our children were serially abused. Just like Hamas war recorded its own crimes against humanity. On October 7th, it continues to document its own atrocities. Releasing footage of crowds terrorizing the hostages in their final moments of captivity. Those scenes bringing to mind that scene from Game of Thrones and fans of the series will of course know which scene I'm talking about.

1 (12m 22s):
Of course, the hostages were not held in reasonable condition. What else do you expect from, you know, a terrorist group? The simple fact of the matter is that the hostages were treated precisely as you would expect Hamas to treat the hostages. We'll get to that in just one second.

Genucel (12m 35s):
First, I've got a holiday gift idea. It's sure to make you the hero of the season. Now we all know that the holidays can be a bit hectic. The shopping, the cooking, the never ending list of things to do. Fear not. I have discovered a gift that's not just thoughtful, it's downright transformative. We're talking about the gift of Genucel Skincare. Now I know about Genus salt because like 10 years ago I was doing a local radio show in Los Angeles and they gave me some of the product. My wife used it, my mom used it. They kept using it long after Genus Salt was an advertiser. Well, from now until Christmas, genus Cell's most popular package has a special discount. Just for my listeners@genuscell.com slash SHAPIRO, treat yourself and your loved ones to the absolute best skincare in the world. Those troubling forehead wrinkles, fine line skin redness. Yes, even that sagging jawline. It will disappear directly before your eyes. With Genu Sell's most popular collection, genus Cell Promises immediate effects. You'll see results in less than 12 hours guaranteed, or your money back. Again. Genus Sell has sent a bunch of product down to our offices as well. Everybody is using it. You deserve to look and feel your best this holiday season. Go to genu sell.com/ Shapiro, get this incredible holiday discount. Every order today is instantly upgraded to free express shipping. That's genus sell.com/ Shapiro today. Again, genus sell.com/ Shapiro.

7 (13m 38s):
So meanwhile, as we're discussing those who oppose Israel destroying Hamas, they continue to make a variety of arguments. Again, Israel's considering going back in, they're going to have to, the only question is when.

1 (13m 48s):
And so there are a bunch of people predominantly on the left who are attempting to make the claim that Israel should stop. They're complaining that after Hamas, no one knows what comes next. That's a weird accusation 'cause pretty much everybody knows what comes next. And Israeli led reoccupation of the Gaza Strip, hopefully with some input from Egypt, Saudi Arabia, UAE, to help fund this and to establish a peaceful regime that will eventually break the back of the PA and Hamas ossification efforts over the past four generations to indoctrinate literally 2 million people in the idea that the Jews must be destroyed, but the media pretend they don't understand. I gotta say the foe ignorance of members of the media is truly an amazing thing to watch. These are people who pretend that they know everything, but suddenly they turn into simple-minded village idiots when confronted with bare facts. So here's Chris Hayes of SNBC, picking up Rachel Maddow's glasses, putting them on and, and then playing the village idiotic.

8 (14m 33s):
There's a question of what comes after people say Hamas war must be destroyed. Yes. Right? It's must, but then, okay, well then well then what? There's some who said maybe the Palestinian authority can, can be the governing entity. No, they can't. Okay. So I I know that you, you, you, you repost that they

9 (14m 51s):
Can't because they're educated for hate, you know, but they're not, they're not Hamas educated. Right? They're not Hamas, but they are educated for hate. But then who, who? and they are paid for slay, so they can't who. Okay, so what we want to do first is to eliminate Hamas and then to have a buffer zone, okay? You know, in order to, to keep our villages safe. And then there should be like maybe international international allies from, you know, countries like Egypt, like the UAE that will come and manage their lives there for few years. We need to do, you know, deification, deification in order to, what does that mean?

9 (15m 34s):
Deification? Yeah, deification. Yeah. Because right now the children from the age since they, since they're born from the age of two three, we saw it in the, in the kindergartens. We saw it in the school. They're being educated to slaughtered Jews. Okay? This is how they are being educated.

8 (15m 53s):
With all due respect. With all due respect. Lemme just say this, whether that is true or not,

9 (15m 57s):
It is true. You can't, it's, you can't argue on the facts. Okay? We saw it in their schools. There

8 (16m 2s):
Are 10

9 (16m 3s):
So rockets in this schools, 10 or

8 (16m 4s):
15,000 people have died. There have been children who have died. This is not

9 (16m 9s):
In dispute, we didn't start this law.

8 (16m 11s):
I know you didn't. But my, my question to you is what I hear from you is not Joe Biden says we have to restart the two state solution. What I hear from you and what I hear from most of Israeli political leaders in the center, right in the coalition government is no Hamas war, no pa, right? Maybe an international coalition. And we will manage the occupation in perpetuity and we will settle the West Bank and that's it. And you'll have to deal with that,

1 (16m 33s):
Okay? And you'll have to deal with it. Chris Hayes then goes on to suggest we're denying self-determination to these people. It's worth pointing out at this point that Chris Hayes's ridiculous assumption that self-determination is somehow owed to every single group regardless of the evils of their belief system is extraordinarily dangerous. Did ISIS deserve self-determination? How about Hezbollah? How about the white supremacists? Ha sees around every corner do they deserve self-determination? But in order to back ha's point, the left continues to push the idea that the Palestinian Arabs and the Gaza Strip and the West Bank are somehow magically a moderate group simply dominated by a few terror masters. I know there's a very flattering myth, the left, that the, the west particularly, we love to tell ourselves this myth, right? This is the, we will be greeted as liberators in Iraq myth.

1 (17m 13s):
It's the same thing from the Bush administration. Here is the Pentagon spokesperson saying just that

10 (17m 18s):
Of course the Israelis are taking into account innocent civilians. That's why again, in all of our calls that the secretary has with his counterpart Minster Gallant, we continue to urge of course for the protection of innocent civilians wherever they are in Gaza. And, and again, we have to remember Hamas does not represent the Palestinian people and they shouldn't. The Palestinian people deserve true leadership and, and again, Hamas war really should be rooted out from within Gaza.

1 (17m 47s):
Okay? So the idea that they don't represent the Palestinian people is a lie. There's precisely zero evidence that Hamas does not represent the Palestinians. That like zero no evidence of that fact doesn't mean they're all terrorists. It means they do support a terrorist group, period. They elected Hamas and then by every available poll since then, they support Hamas, including in the West Bank where Kamas is not governed. So for all the people who are saying you can't trust the poll results in Gaza, fine. Don't trust those poll results. Trust the poll results in the West Bank where the Palestinian authority is the governing entity. Then there's the complaint that the left is lodging. That Israel must stop its campaign against Kamas in order to minimize civilian casualties. As we've repeatedly discussed, Israel tries to do that, but to focus on this question gives total leverage to Hamas because Hamas doesn't care at all like they care.

1 (18m 32s):
Zero about that topic. Finally, the left complains that international institutions are being hampered in their efforts to help. Well let's talk a little bit about these. So-called international institutions, they are a sick joke. They are broken. They're broken because there is no such thing as an international community. There can be no community with tyrannical hellholes and people who support terrorism. And yet apparently so long as you say the magic words international humanitarian institution, everybody is supposed to bow and scrape before you as though you are in fact a good-hearted saint doing wondrous healing work More often than that, more often than not, the term international humanitarian organization is a tremendous lie.

1 (19m 13s):
Take for example, the United Nations, the utter disgrace that is the UN is nothing new. Of course, the UN came into being in the aftermath of World War II when the west was seeking to end all conflict via international diplomacy as literally all of history since that has shown that plan was a giant failure. It turns out the best guarantor of international safety and security is a strong hegemonic western power, namely the United States. Whenever the UN has been entrusted to guarantee safety and security, it has failed in Korea, in Rwanda, in Yugoslavia, in the Sinai Desert in Lebanon, literally everywhere. Whenever UN peacekeepers are put in a place and Then it, tyrannical regime demands, they be removed. They just leave. Un agencies have sometimes been helpful in distributing aid, but just as often they've stolen that aid or worked on behalf of nefarious powers.

1 (19m 54s):
Nowhere has all of this been truer than in the Gaza Strip. We'll get to that in just one second.

Beam (19m 60s):
First, the holidays are here. The last thing you need during this busy time of yours to miss out on a great night's sleep. This is why my team has been using Beam's Dream Powder Beam's Dream Powder contains a powerful all natural blend of ingredients, including magnesium hanin. It's not just your one run of the mill sleep aid, it's concoction carefully crafted to help you slip into the sweet embrace of rest without the grogginess that often accompanies other sleep remedies. Sleep is the foundation of our mental and physical health. You must have a consistent nighttime routine to function at your best. I know I'm on the road right now and it's screwing up my sleep schedule. I need to get back home, get into a sleep schedule, and you need Beam Dream. Today my listeners get a special discount on Beams Dream Powder, their bestselling hot cocoa for sleep with no added sugar. Now in delicious flavors like cinnamon, cocoa, chocolate, peanut butter, and mint chip better sleep has never tasted better. You just mix some Beam dream into hot water or milk stir or froth and enjoy before bedtime. If you find yourself battling the bedtime blues, give it a shot. Your weary self will, in fact, thank you. Try Beams bestselling dream powder, take advantage of their biggest sale of the year. Get up to 50% off For a limited time when you go to shop Beam dot com slash Ben, that discount is auto apply to checkout no code necessary. That's shop BEA m.com/ Ben for up to 50% off

1 (21m 5s):
. Okay, so as the world clamors for Israel to stop its operations in the Gaza Strip, even As Israel prepares to go back in. They're again claiming that international agencies must be allowed to do their work. These international agencies are by and large garbage and or tools of Hamas the UN Relief and Works agency. for example, the only agency in the UN dedicated to one specific group of people, Palestinian Arab refugees, and I put refugees in quotes there because we are now talking about the great grandchildren of people who moved like three miles down the road into the Gaza Strip, has funneled billions of dollars to Palestinians, including terror groups. In fact, since 1994, the United States has sent over $10 billion to the Palestinians. The United States supplies nearly 30% of the UN RWA budget.

1 (21m 48s):
Historically, the UN RWA workforce, it consists of tens of thousands of Palestinians living in the Gaza Strip, including many terrorists and terrorist supporters. As we've talked about on the show, when the Trump administration cut aid to the UN RWA, the State Department said quote, the fundamental business model and fiscal practices that have marked U-N-R-W-A for years tied to UN RWAs endlessly and exponentially expanding community of entitled beneficiaries is simply unsustainable and has been in crisis mode for many years. The Biden administration quickly restored aid to the U-N-R-W-A, but now the U-N-R-W-A is giving Western powers heartburn. Again, that's because of reports that one of the child hostages held by Hamas was actually being held by A-U-N-R-W-A teacher barely given any food and no medicine.

1 (22m 30s):
By the way, that would be the kind of person teaching at the schools that Chris Hayes denies are actually teaching at the schools. When I yell at Cade in that clip tells Chris Hayes that people are being indoctrinated by teachers from the UN RWA and he says, well, even if that's literally one of those teachers was holding a hostage, a child hostage in his attic. No wonder the esta Foreign affair committees, Frank Mueller Rosett in Germany actually called on the German government to cut aid to the UN RWA. And it's not just the UN RWA, that's the problem. Here is Sarah Hendricks, deputy executive Director for UN Women. That's a western organization that has not bothered to condemn Hamas' mass rape of Israeli women. On October 7th, here she was being questioned by Bana Gaga of CNN.

11 (23m 12s):
Is there a reason though, Sarah, that you can't specifically call out Hamas war and the mounting evidence now over seven weeks that Israeli investigators have collected that we've shown our viewers about the atrocities they committed specifically on October 7th because I I think that's the crux of the issue here. It's not just condemning sexual violence against women and in any war in general. It's specifically what occurred on October 7th perpetrated by Hamas war.

12 (23m 42s):
Indeed, you and women always supports impartial independent investigations into any serious allegations of gender-based or sexual violence. And within the UN family, these investigations are led by the Office of the High Commissioner of Human Rights. And just to provide a little bit of context in terms of UN Women's Rule, UN women specifically provides and has extensive knowledge on gender-based violence and provides and supports investigations as we do with all UN investigations.

1 (24m 14s):
So as gimme be a no on condemning Hamas, that is an awful lot of word salad to avoid condemning Hamas. But what else would you expect from our humanitarian organizations? Take as another example, the International Red Cross, because the International Committee of the Red Cross requires the help of groups like Hamas to even work in the Gaza Strip, they end up as tools of Hamas. The ICRC has spent little or no time condemning Hamas for its October 7th atrocities. Instead, they focused on Israel's action in Gaza. They ICRC also failed to report the facts, which they knew about Israeli hostages being held at GA and hospitals even as the international media lied that those hospitals were civilian sites. Meanwhile, the ICRC has not fulfilled one of the key components of Israel's original hostage deal. With Hamas verification of life and health of the hostages being held by Hamas, that failure has had particularly tragic consequences.

1 (25m 1s):
In the case of the BBOs family, they were kidnapped from a village called near Oz. Father den mother Sheri, four-year old Ariel and 10 month old fear were taken to Gaza. Here's the footage of them being abducted. You can see there's the mom carrying these two redheaded kids as Kamas kidnapped them. They're physically healthy, they were obviously healthy when taken, but nobody knows if they are alive. Earlier this week it was reported that the family was traded to the popular front for the liberation of Palestine, another terrorist group by Hamas. And then yesterday Hamas claimed the family had been killed by Israeli bombs. So where is the ICRC to testify to any of this? Deny it. Verify. They're absolutely missing.

1 (25m 41s):
Instead, the ICRC, the wonderful humanitarian organization has become a shuttle service for Israeli hostages, helping Hamas release the hostages as gazen crowds cheer in blood thirsty fashion. There's more of that last night. Don't worry folks. The Palestinian Arab population, they hate Hamas, which is why they're literally jeering, mocking, cheering, filming the release of Israeli hostages, mostly women and children. These are wonderful moderates who deserve self-determination. Obviously the world will be a better place if they had a state. The international humanitarian institutions have be clowned themselves in the current Israel Hamas war, but they were a suspect long before that. It's just that radical Muslims in the left-wing press have laundered lies into public view by adding the imprimatur of the magical international community to corrupt institutions riddled with political radicals and corrupt functionaries.

1 (26m 32s):
In just one second, I'm gonna talk about international institutions and international politics because a lot of what you are seeing today in the obits about Henry Kissinger is predicated on people's views about particularly this subject. So last night, Henry Kissinger died who's a hundred years old. I'd met him very briefly once, and I had interviewed him once. It didn't end up being taped. He is a fascinating character, obviously very checkered character. A lot of the decisions he made were extremely cold ey, extremely cold ey. A lot of people ranging from Anthony Bourdain to Christopher Hitchens condemned him as a war criminal for his decision making during the Nixon administration with regards to, for example, the Indonesian invasion of East Timor or the American intervention on behalf of Pinoche in Chile in 1973 by or or the bombing of Cambodia.

1 (27m 25s):
By the same token, how you view Kissinger is very much a reflection of how you view international politics as a whole. And the reason that this is broken down into sort of a left right divide, despite the fact that Kissinger's history was very checkered in terms of left right decision making. So for example, the right doesn't like the fact that Kissinger quote unquote opened China. It was Kissinger who really led to the opening of China at the time. It was a real politic decision because he saw a gap emerging between China and Russia and he was attempting to exploit that gap by wooing China away from Russia, right? That was the goal. The goal was Woo China away from Russia, remove them as a source of trade and resources for Russia and you'll end up weakening the Russian regime, which is why the the trip to China was initiated with Nixon speaking with Mao.

1 (28m 8s):
So in retrospect, we can say, and I would say that's a bad mistake at the time, it's a choice between two bad decisions and this was the sort of guiding light of Kissinger's Foreign policy. So Henry Kissinger for, for those who don't know much about Kissinger himself, he was a massive celebrity in the 1970s. He was a Secretary of State during the Nixon and and Gerald Ford administrations. According to the Wall Street Journal, no US Secretary of State ever achieved such celebrity while in office as Henry Kissinger. A 1974 Newsweek cover depicted him as Super KA comic book Hero Time called him the world's most indispensable man. Gallup ranked him America's most admired man. A 1972 Life Magazine spread pictured him with a bevy of actresses including Jill St. John. Yet no former Secretary of State has been more vehemently criticized of the many anti Kissinger books.

1 (28m 50s):
The most influential was Christopher Hitchen's, the trial of Henry Kissinger, which explicitly accused Kissinger of responsibility for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Indochina, Chile, Argentina, Cyprus, East Timor, and several other places. Although the book mentioned only one other supposed crime scene Bangladesh and mentioned the Soviet Union only three times. This is Neil Ferguson who wrote a biography of Henry Kissinger talking about Henry Kissinger. He said those accusations stuck like mud. Late in life, Kissinger regularly faced protests at his public appearances, yet they're at odds with the historical record. And Ferguson points out that Kissinger was both the White House National Security Advisor and the Secretary of State. His accomplishments included the negotiation of the first strategic arms limitation treaty, the A BM treaty with the Soviet Union, the opening to China, the ceasefire in the Yom Kippur War in 1973, the end of us involvement in the Vietnam War, for which both he and North Vietnamese counterpart lead were awarded the 1973 Nobel Peace Prize.

1 (29m 46s):
But here is the problem, okay? If you see Foreign policy as a family of nations, a lot of good-hearted people out there, they all just want the same thing, but they're having different ways of achieving that, then hardcore Foreign policy looks nasty to you because the easiest thing is just wash your hands of everything. Oh, if the United States just goes hands off, why? Why were we even involved in these places? Why didn't from the right? What you hear, and I think this critique is correct of Henry Kissinger, is that Henry Kissinger was so focused on the sort of metro Nikki and balance of power that he forgot that the United States is a global hegemon. And from the left, what you hear of Henry Kissinger is he was engaged in the dirty game of politics and that meant that the United States was constantly engaged in dirty little Wars all around the world we shouldn't have been engaged in.

1 (30m 28s):
And the reality is somewhere in between. The reason that the left thinks that is because the left believes that if a communist regime were to arise in Latin America with the beha, with the help of the Soviet Union, that's not a bad thing. I think a Marxist regime in Latin America or many Marxist regimes in Latin America, what's the big deal? Why is that a problem? Why does it matter if Vietnam turns communist? Why does it matter if Cambodian laws turn communist? Why does it matter if you Seymour terms communist? Why does any of that matter? First of all, that demonstrates a complete misreading of how Foreign policy works. Foreign policy is a dirty, terrible business in which if I, as I say, Kissinger had one central Foreign policy message, his overriding message was avoid the worst outcome, which means sometimes embracing the second worst outcome.

1 (31m 9s):
If you read any of his books, this was Kissinger's main thing was avoid the worst outcome. This, by the way, was his recommendation in Ukraine. So when it came to Ukraine during this war that is currently ongoing, very early on he suggested that there should be an off ramp in Ukraine because everybody knew that Ukraine was not gonna take the Don Basar Crimea in which Ukraine was given security guarantees did not formally tornado, but was given enough armaments to defend itself against a predatory Russian invasion. And Russia was basically given dominion over the territories. It was very likely to hold anyway. And this pleased no one in the early days of the war And. it turns out it was rather presant because what he was attempting to avoid was a straight up face-to-face confrontation between NATO and Russia. That's what he was attempting to avoid and he knew there weren't, there weren't the stones for it in the West and so realize what is happening on the ground and adjust to it.

1 (31m 54s):
So when people rip on Kissinger, there are two rips. One is that he misread particular situations, he should have done things differently. All of that's legitimate. The second rip, which is just wrong, is the rip that you don't have to make these sort of considerations when you make American Foreign policy that American Foreign policy is either the most sinful Foreign policy on planet Earth. Every ill can be ascribed to it. You see this in the critique of Kissinger with regard to Cambodia and Laos for example, right? The the basic idea that is promoted by the left with Cambodia is that Kissinger when he took over as Secretary of State in the aftermath of LBJ completely botching the Vietnam War. When he came in, he said, we need to start bombing the communist supply lines in Cambodia. And he authorized mass huge bombing raids into Cambodia without the approval of Congress And, it can talk about whether it needed congressional approval and all the rest.

1 (32m 40s):
That's fine. But as a Foreign policy matter did bombing Cambodia, cause for example the left now claims that that caused the rise of pole pott in Cambodia, that Kamir Rouge would never have happened if we had not bombed Cambodia. That assumes that there's no such thing as agency in the world. It's a lie. It's not true. The minute the United States got out of Vietnam, Cambodia failed the pole pod. So again, it's a bunch of considerations. This is the the overriding message of Kissinger's life and it's the thing we should take away from it. While still quibbling or arguing or strenuously hating many of his Foreign policy decisions, Foreign policy is a dangerous and dirty business. It is not possible to engage in Foreign policy and keep your hands totally clean. That is not something that you can do because there are in fact nefarious powers who hate you and who wish the worst for you and who will have an impact on your life.

1 (33m 25s):
Whether you're talking about them controlling choke points and international trades we've talked about on the show from the Straits of Horror Movies to the Straits of Taiwan, or whether you're talking about active military operations against the United States in far from places, and yes indeed at home, you have to recognize that the world is a complex place that requires complex choices. And very often those choices are the choices of the least bad scenario and having to actually engage with the second worst scenario. And that really is the story of Henry Kissinger's Foreign policy. Again, I I agree with many of the critiques from the right that sometimes who's engaging in the second worst scenario when say like a better scenario was available. And again, that's a good critique.

1 (34m 5s):
What I don't agree with is the total isolationist or libertarian position, which is that America should go hands off in the world and somehow the world will be a better place for it. That's a very difficult position to maintain in the in face of the fact that again, there are countries all over the world that hate us, that do not agree with our values that seek to maximize their own power at the expense of the American people. There's this weird notion that is taken root on the right and the left. It's this horseshoe theory thing, which is that everybody who acts badly in the world was somehow driven to it by the United States. This is why you're seeing the left embrace tiktoks of Osama bin Laden circa 2002 because oh, he would never have done that if we hadn't been so mean in Saudi Arabia. Yeah, sure, you see the right to do the same thing with regard to Russia never would've invaded Ukraine if it had not been for our attempts to extend helping hand to, to Ukraine and make overtures tornado.

1 (34m 53s):
Or maybe Russia has a long history under Vladimir Putin of territorial invasions of neighboring countries. Maybe it turns out that other people except for the West, have agency. And once you realize other people except for the West have agency, it changes your decision making dramatically. This is true all over the world. The fundamental Foreign policy mistake is the assumption that only the West has agency, this sort of ethno centricity. This political arrogance leads to ironically more death than a humility that acknowledges that other people have interests adverse to our own and that you have to respect those interests even if that means fighting those interests. Okay, in just one second, we'll get to the 2024 campaign, which again, this is gonna be the weirdest campaign in American history.

Balance Of Nature (35m 33s):
First, Balance Of Nature fruits and veggies are a great way to make sure you're getting essential nutritional ingredients every single day. Balance Of Nature uses an advanced cold vacuum process that encapsulates fruits and veggies into whole food supplements without sacrificing their natural antioxidants. The capsules are completely void of additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticides, or added sugar. The only thing in balance of nature's fruit and veggie capsules are, while you know the fruits and the veggies, there's never been an easier way to make sure that you are getting daily dose of fruits and veggies. Balance Of Nature sent a bunch of fruit and veggie capsules down to the studio for my team to try. Everybody feels brighter, healthier, more energetic. I love Balance Of Nature because it helps make my busy schedule significantly more manageable. Producer Zach brought his Balance Of Nature fruits and veggies on the road. I'm actually gonna need to steal some from him after the show because I gotta be honest with you, didn't get enough sleep last night. Go to Balance Of Nature dot com, use promo code Shapiro for 35% off your first order as a preferred customer. That's Balance Of Nature dot com promo code Shapiro. Get 35% off your first preferred order.

12 (36m 26s):
Also, lady Ballers, it's almost here. It's the most triggering comedy of the decade for sure. I saw it last night. I mean, yes, people are going to be triggered. It is streaming exclusively on DailyWire Plus tomorrow night at 8:00 PM Eastern, you've heard us talking about the movie all week and now I get to tell you even more because I actually saw the movie, believe it or not, as an executive producer on the film. I had not seen the movie until last night and it is hilarious. I gotta say special props to Tyler special, special props to the crane boys, David Cohen I mean there.

1 (36m 56s):
There is so much that is very funny in this movie and most of all it is the movie that Hollywood should have been making but they couldn't. And So we did. We are making jokes about a thing that needs to be mocked and that is the idea that boys can be girls and girls can be boys. It's a stupid idea, requires jokes and that's what we're doing. Lady Ballers premiers tomorrow night exclusively at DailyWire Plus at 8:00 PM Eastern. Well, meanwhile, the 2024 election continues a pace right now in the real clear politics average Donald Trump is up about two points. There are two recent polls that have Biden backup a couple of points, but he's never above 44, 40 3% in these polls. And in fact, in the polls where he's at 49 or 47 or 46, Trump is up on him in those polls.

1 (37m 38s):
So in other words, Joe Biden is stuck, his ceiling is like 44, 40 5%. And when people are forced to the decision, Matt, right now they're breaking in favor of Trump. in fact, what the polls are showing is not right now actually increase or decrease support for Biden. Actually over the course of the last couple of months, his support is slightly up Biden in these polls. The, the problem for him is that all the independents are breaking in favor of Trump. Why is that happening? It's because, again, all the focus is on Joe Biden. And so the question is gonna be, can Donald Trump keep the focus on Joe Biden as this election moves forward? In order for that to happen, Trump cannot run a revenge campaign. He cannot, his campaign can be a political, a policy revenge campaign.

1 (38m 18s):
He can say, listen, here are my policies, Joe Biden got rid of all of them and the world is now on fire. I closed the border, Joe Biden opened the border. I was in negotiating piece in the Middle East. Joe Biden has blown up all of that by legitimizing the Houthis in Yemen by funding Iran, by restoring aid to the Palestinians. He can say all of that. He can say that the economy was going great guns before Covid and then even in the middle of Covid, the economy was recovering at a steeper pace than it did subsequently, under Joe Biden, Joe Biden has broken all of the economic levers, which is why right now the economy is running extremely hot, but also we are in danger of continued baked in inflation, right? He can say all those things that that would be a great campaign making that campaign about were you better off in 2019 or are you better off in 2024?

1 (39m 1s):
That is a good winning campaign for Donald Trump. You know what's not a great winning campaign for Donald Trump? I'm coming in, I'm gonna break all the people who came after me. That is not something I think the American people are up for. Again, because the best of Donald Trump always and forever was the version of Donald Trump who said, I am your tool. You wield me in order to achieve certain objectives. I am the shield for you. But when he starts to make it about the voters being a shield for him, people tend to object to that. They don't want to buy into his personal issues, even if they think like I do, that many of those issues are being created by the left and are false. If the answer to to Donald Trump is being unjustly persecuted is election, I don't buy that. I think the the answer to Donald Trump, Trump being unjustly persecuted is fund his legal defense fund.

1 (39m 47s):
But again, he has an independent case to make. That is way better than that. Which is why again, he's been soaring in the polls. The less you see of him, you have not seen him, he's been gone. All the focus has been on Joe Biden. It needs to stay that way, which is why I think it's particularly foolish for Donald Trump to go out there and start warning people about the weaponization of the DOJ. So Trump put out a, a giant statement on truth social. Yesterday he said, I'm 12 points up on crooked Joe Biden. I Dunno what poll he's looking at where he is. 12 points up on on I I. Listen, I wish, I wish he's not, there are no polls where he is up 12 points on Biden, but he's got the Justice Department and others suing me wherever and whenever possible weaponization it's called. And maybe that can make a difference. This has never been done on the scale before, not in our country.

1 (40m 28s):
It opens up a very big and dangerous Pandora's box. Joe Biden should stop his election interfering thugs before it's too late for him and the rest of the country. As the leader of the opposition party, I should not be forced to campaign from inside a courthouse, which is very doable but not very democratic or convenient. This is where they want me to spend my time and money. It is not the way our system is supposed to work. If they filed these and then he just goes on along these lines. Again, I don't think he's wrong about any of this. I just don't see why that should be the centerpiece of the campaign. It can certainly be a part of the campaign him saying, listen, Joe Biden's a very bad president. He's going to lose. That's the reason he's targeting me. But back to why Joe Biden is a bad president, that is totally worthwhile. But if his campaign is in fact about his sort sort of personal venge taking I I think that's gonna be a problem for him, that's a thought expressed by his, by the way, erstwhile Ally, Kevin McCarthy, former speaker of the house, he said this yesterday, he said, if Trump's campaign is about revenge, he'll lose I.

1 (41m 16s):
I. Don't think that's wrong. And like our hate McCarthy, this is not bad political analysis.

4 (41m 22s):
I'm trying to square in my brain how you have those feelings about him at that time and say, I think he would be a great president today.

14 (41m 32s):
I didn't say a great president. I said he'd be a better president than what we're having. I said, the country would be in a better place if his campaign is about renew, rebuild, and restore, he'll win. If it's about revenge, he'll lose. That's the only person that's gonna determine not, that is not his campaign ad is him.

1 (41m 53s):
Okay? And and he's right about that. McCarthy is right about that, which is why Trump needs to be careful. Now I will say Trump did something absolutely kind of ridiculous. That is worth noting yesterday because frankly, if any other candidate did this like Trump, I understand that Trump has a halt pass from the entire Republican party for pretty much anything he does at this point because it's all baked into the cake at this point. But Donald Trump did in fact endorse BLM yesterday, which is like an insane thing to do. So. what happened is that there's a person named Mark Fisher who built himself as a co-founder of BLM in Rhode Island. He said he was very honored to have his and M's support. BLM is a garbage organization. You don't want BBL M'S support. I mean, I understand again that everything Trump says has to be taken not just with a a grain of salt, but like a giant iceberg of salt, like a giant salt block from the Dead Sea.

1 (42m 41s):
I get it. But can we just point out that B Lmm is a horrifying organization? It's a giant grift. Not only is it a giant grift, it's a giant anti-Semitic grift and a giant anti-white grift. And it's really, really bad. So I, you know the, this is in terms of its record, by the way, this is the part of his record. I think that's the worst is the criminal justice reform kind of stuff. The idea that he's gonna jailbreak a bunch of people who are criminals. But in any case, if Donald Trump wants to win, he's going to have to focus in on the failures of Joe Biden, of which there are many. We'll get to that in just one second.

Tax Network USA (43m 12s):
First, the October 15th tax deadline has already passed. I know many of you might be dreading the stress of filing those taxes. I know it's terrible every year. Filing your taxes can be a long, excruciating process. But if you fail to file, you'll start to pile penalties on your tax debt, which is why you need to check out Tax Network USA, the team at Tax Network, USA has a track record of success. They've reduced tax debts for numerous clients totaling over a billion dollars. Whether you're looking at a 10,000 or $1 million tax debt that can help you with a settlement, it doesn't matter if you haven't filed in a year, five years, even a whole decade tax network, USA is equipped to secure the best settlement for you. Their expert attorneys and tax professionals can help resolve all tax cases no matter how they started. Don't let tax debt control your life any longer. Take the first step toward resolving your tax issues by visiting Tax Network USA dot com slash SHAPIRO. That's Tax Network USA dot com slash SHAPIRO. Again, when you fall behind on your tax debts, it can eat your life. I mean like for years, for decades. You need to get that solved today. If you have tax issues, visit Tax Network USA dot com slash Shapiro and get started resolving that issue today. That's Tax Network USA dot com slash Shapiro today.

14 (44m 13s):
Well, there is a rule in presidential politics, particularly campaign politics, that when something goes wrong, sort of everything goes wrong. My friend John Po Hortz over the Commentary Magazine podcast, he's the editor of Commentary Magazine who wrote a book in the early 1990s about the Bush doomed reelect effort in 19 91, 19 92. And one of his basic thesis was that when a campaign is failing, everything starts to go wrong all at once.

1 (44m 36s):
And that seems to be happening to Joe Biden right now. Whether it's him just wandering around on stage as a comedian, Shane Gillis puts it like a, like a Roomba when he's sort of confused at the end of his speeches just bumping into things or whether it's what happened last night. So the Biden Christmas tree just fell over. They're trying to put it up And, it fell over again. These sorts of images, they don't mean anything on their own, but they do when there's a generalized sort of feeling of instability. And when the Christmas tree represents the actual president of the United States And, it falls over again. Is he in, is he in charge of the weather? No. The Jews are in charge of the weather, as we all know. But when, when it falls over, everybody is immediately flashing to Joe Biden falling up the stairs, right? I mean, here, here's what it looked like last night.

15 (45m 17s):
And you put the screws like Uncle fester on his head and you make sure it's equal and you stand that tree up and you should be able to walk out of that room and no, it won't fall down. Sadly, no one listened to me yesterday, down goes the Frazier fur. Well, he's okay. Brian I I. Don't know that you've read all the details about the national Christmas tree, which blew over in a a We'll make excuses. Well, here's the thing. They didn't put it in a stand. They planted it. That's big problems. The problem on the, don't listen to Brian on the

1 (45m 47s):
Just there. They're trying to pull it back up again. And it. It's are these major things, they're not major things, obviously they're silly things, but when all the silly things seem to fall in one direction, that is a bad sign for the incumbent president of the United States. Like Jimmy's Carter being attacked while he was on a boat in 1979 by a rabbit, like a rab, like a rabbit rabbit. It was, it was an actual thing that happened apparently. Well, here's the thing. It's not just that Joe Biden thingss are going wrong for him. It's that of course things are going wrong for him because he is not good at the president thing. According to Axios. Evidence is stacking up showing Americans are saving less and drawing down their existing savings cushions. Of course they are because the more you save an inflationary economy, less your money is worth. I put a hundred bucks in the bank today and then my dollar is worth 50% of what it was worth.

1 (46m 29s):
Six months from now I've lost money by keeping my money parked. Instead, you're better off buying things. This is why you're seeing an accelerating rate of growth. So Q3 showed a 5.2% increase in GDP. That sounds amazing, right? That's great except that what's actually happening is everybody is pre-buying all the materials for Q4 in anticipation of the fact the prices are probably gonna continue to rise as we hit the holidays. According to Axios, the share of adults who say they can cover six months of expenses using their savings is considerably lower than it was last year. According to polling from Morning Consult, the share that simply doesn't know how long their savings will carry them has grown from about 15.5% in July, 2022 to 21%. The spending right now is booing the economy, but it's likely to crash on the other end and nobody's gonna have savings 'cause they already spent their savings because of the inflation.

1 (47m 13s):
So that is really bad news. Again, the the economic news here is so mixed. This is why people are feeling on tenor hooks, inflation eats everything. And Joe Biden has not been able to tame inflation in such a way that people feel secure in the economy. Now all the financial experts are expecting that the Federal Reserve is gonna actually decrease the interest rates in the near future, which of course there are a lot of people are like, wait, isn't inflation still running hot right now? And the answer is yes, it is still running hot right now. And if you decrease those inflation, the those interest rates, then presumably you are going to get new spending, new investment, and all of the rest of it. The bond markets jumped at this obviously because your bond is worth more now than it was yesterday if the interest rates start to start to drop.

1 (47m 55s):
With that said, is any of this good news for Joe Biden's economy? Again, they, they're stuck between a rock and a hard place on the actual policy. Meanwhile, the Republicans are starting to go after Joe Biden again on the impeachment inquiry. Republicans are apparently considering holding an official house vote next month to authorize the impeachment inquiry into Biden. McCarthy initiated it when he was speaker of the house without an actual vote, because he didn't think he had the votes. Now, GOP leaders are talking about the possibility of a vote during a closed door meeting with Republican lawmakers. Republican leaders have long said a vote on the impeachment investigation was unnecessary. They're now reconsidering because White House lawyers are using the lack of a formal house authorization to argue that the investigation lacks constitutional legitimacy. The problem, of course, is that it's not clear they've got the votes for that.

1 (48m 38s):
That's, I I've yet to see the evidence that Mike Johnson is like significantly better at whipping votes than, than Kevin McCarthy was. McCarthy was pretty good at that. He was pretty good at counting the heads. Johnson may be good at it, we just don't know as of yet. No matter the the impeachment inquiry on top of Joe Biden's failing presidency is not going to help him. It isn't and, and the White House doesn't have a great rebuttal to it. Here's Karine Jean-Pierre yesterday trying to go after Republicans for pursuing the impeachment inquiry

16 (49m 8s):
House Republicans should, should really focus on American families instead of the President's family. That's what Americans wanna see,

1 (49m 18s):
That that's not gonna, that, that's not gonna cut it. Nobody buys the focus on American families, not on Joe Biden's family. First of all, Joe Biden's family is an American family and a rather key American family. I will say again, I think that that Hunter Biden's new tactic is actually somewhat intelligent calling on the house GOP to open up the meetings. I I think he's actually pretty smart because it's basically calling their bluff. He's, he's saying, listen, whatever you have to come after me about, let's do this all in front of, in front of everybody. The house has denied that request. James Comer, the head of House oversight committee, he said Our lawfully issued subpoena to Hunter Biden requires him to appear for a deposition on December 13th. We expect full cooperation with our subpoena for a deposition. We also agree Hunter Biden should have the opportunity to testify in a public setting at a future date.

1 (50m 1s):
Typically, house panels insist on a private deposition before allowing the public appearance. The January 6th select committee denied several requests to testify publicly, including one from Rudy Giuliani. Jim Jordan for his part said, sure, we'd love to have Hunter in for an open hearing. First we need to have him testify behind closed doors, So, we can ask him all the questions we wanna ask him.

17 (50m 18s):
And those facts are confirmed by some of the evidence we've uncovered already. Already this 10 23 form where the confidential human source told the FBI And, it was recorded in this form that those are the key facts, and now it's important. We got a lot of those key facts. When we interviewed one of Hunter Biden's business partners, Mr. Archer, it's important we talk to the others. We need to talk to Eric Sch Sheerman, we need to talk to Rob Walker, we need to talk to Tony Bobinski. And we are in conversations with their lawyers and we think there's gonna happen and we need to talk to Jim Biden, who was also in business with Hunter Biden. Those things need to happen. And then as the chairman just said, as Chairman Comer just said, we will have Hunter Biden in a deposition. And frankly, I think in a, in an open hearing, I think that would be, that would be great.

17 (51m 1s):
That's what needs to happen. So the American people get the facts, get the truth.

1 (51m 6s):
Okay, so again, Republicans are gonna keep pushing here. None of it is going to be particularly good for Joe Biden. Alrighty, in just a second, we're gonna get to the, the dumbest excuse for the American National debt that I've seen recently. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us

HumanN (51m 28s):
Looking for some heart healthy energy. Try supporting your blood pressure with SuperBeets heart shoes paired with a healthy lifestyle. The antioxidants in SuperBeets are clinically shown to be nearly two times more effective at promoting normal blood pressure than a healthy lifestyle alone. Double your potential with Super beats heart. Choose Find out how you can get a free 30 day supply of SuperBeets Heart. Choose and 15% off your first order by going to get superbeets.com and using code Daily. That's get super BEET s.com code daily.