Boll & Branch (0s):
Folks, what does everyone do when shopping online? Well, you jump to the reviews and you see what customers actually think. Well, BOL and Branch did the hard work for you. In a recent customer survey, 96% said BOL and brand sheets get softer With every single wash, BOL and Brandand sheets are made from the finest 100% organic cotton threads on planet Earth. Buttery to the touch, super breathable, BOL and brand sheets are perfect for both cooler and warmer months that a luxurious signature hemp sheets were made without pesticides, formaldehyde, or other harsh chemicals, they really do get softer with every single wash. Best of all, Bo and Branch gives you a 30 night risk-free trial with free shipping returns on all orders. You're not gonna wanna return them. We love our Bo and branch product. In fact, when I'm on the road, I actually travel with their cable knit throw blanket. It is that good. Their product is just awesome. After a long day, nothing feels better than a restful night's sleep in the softest. Most luxurious sheets sleep better at night with the softest sheets from Bull and Branch. Get 15% off your very first order when you use Code Ben at bull and branch.com. That's bull and branch spelled B-O-L-L-A-N-D branch.com. Promo code Ben exclusions apply C site forward details bull and branch.com.

0 (1m 1s):
Well folks, the attempts to take down Donald Trump are very, very real and they're having significant consequences for the body politic. They're coming from nearly every major institution in the United States, from our universities to the media, from academia to the judiciary as we'll talk about it's happening everywhere. And the real question is why is this really about Donald Trump as a person? Is it really about Donald Trump with all of his myriad foibles and mistakes and craziness, or is it about something broader? I will contend that it's about something broader that the elite institutions in our society have basically decided that if anyone remotely right wing or to ever enter the presidency again it would be an existential threat to their vision of the utopian future for the United States.

0 (1m 41s):
The reason I say this is because this weekend marked President's Day. We have an entire episode of fact up at YouTube that you can view right now about the worst president of all time. And what you'll see in our list is that it goes all the way back and all the way forward and it really tries to take a look at what people did while they were president and the impact of those things while they were president. And sometimes as with Jimmy Carter in their post presidency, but historians, every year there's always a big story about the presidential rankings, the overall presidential greatness rankings from the American Political Science Association. And what this list does is it demonstrates who they think was the best and who they think was the worst. Obviously they've Trump in the last place, of course, of course, and you would assume that they would, but that doesn't really answer the question as to whether they just hate Trump or whether there is something broader going on.

0 (2m 27s):
To truly understand how much the elite institutions hate Trump and really hate the right wing, you have to understand that it's not just that they hate Trump, it's that they despise anyone who smacks in any way of being on the right in the United States, and Trump is just the apotheosis of all of those things. He's just the apex of all the things that they hate because they are able to stack up all of those myriad craziness and foibles of Donald Trump on top of all the other things that they hate about Republicans. So If, you look at their list, their list is stacked top to bottom with Democrats. Every Republican is downgraded significantly. Every Democrat is upgraded significantly. So here is the list from the American Political Science Association of their top presidents.

0 (3m 10s):
They have Abraham Lincoln at number one, obviously consensus number one pick. Now, usual consensus pick is Abraham Lincoln, number one, and George Washington. Number two. Sometimes you see the other way. George Washington, number one and Abraham Lincoln number two, but those are always the top two, but not for the American Political Science Association. They have Lincoln at number one and then they have Franklin Delano Roosevelt in number two, which is pretty astonishing considering that Franklin Delano Roosevelt presided over the Great Depression. He probably lengthened it by nearly a decade with his garbage economic policies. Frank and Delano Roosevelt initiated many of the vast government overspending programs that have crippled America and created a vast welfare state that has led to a $34 trillion national debt.

0 (3m 52s):
In other words, there's some good things that FDR did like for example, his leadership during World War ii. Even now, even that was plagued by some bad leadership decisions, particularly with regard to say the Yalta agreement which seeded all of Eastern Europe to the Soviets. FDR had a bizarre soft spot for Stalin. In any case, putting him number two above George Washington is the tell But. it doesn't end there. It put Teddy Roosevelt at number four. Teddy Roosevelt, of course, was a progressive. Teddy Roosevelt was a believer in the power of big government even though he was a Republican, again, the Republican and democratic parties have shifted identity somewhat over the course of time. They put Thomas Jefferson at number five, Harriet Truman at number six, and Barack Obama at number seven. There is no possible way to say that Barack Obama is the seventh best president of all time, the seventh greatest president of all time clocking in above Dwight d Eisenhower, James Madison, John Adams, Ronald Reagan, and everyone else.

0 (4m 45s):
That's insane. Barack Obama was a terrible president. Barack Obama wildly exacerbated racial divisions in the United States of America by every available polling statistic. He presided over the complete dissolution of American power around the world. He downgraded the American military, he wrecked us in the foreign sphere and domestically he polarized America like no president of my lifetime, bar none, not just on issues of race, but also on issues of culture, on issues of say sexual morays. We moved from a country where in 2008, Barack Obama campaigned as a proponent of traditional marriage to by the time he left office, open discussions about whether men are women. That is what Barack Obama did besides presiding over the worst recovery from a serious economic recession in American history, the slowest recovery in American history, and he spent more money than literally all prior presidents combined did Barack Obama.

0 (5m 37s):
They have them at number seven on this list, and then they have LBJ who initiated the great society programs that have spent probably $13 trillion on anti-poverty programs to leave almost precisely the same percentage of Americans in poverty. They have him ranked at number nine, the guy who lost the Vietnam War and got us involved in it in the the guy who completely rewrote the constitutional relationship between the government and the private American citizen. That guy is at number nine. Bill Clinton is at number 12 as though Joe Biden is at number 14 on this list from the American Political Science Association. How in the world is Joe Biden ranked number 14? Ronald Reagan is ranked number 16.

0 (6m 18s):
So Ronald Reagan, who led the most booming economic recovery in modern American history in the 1980s and also created the groundwork for defeating the Soviet Union, that guy is ranked, that guy is ranked at number 16 and Joe Biden is ranked at number 14 by these people. Woodrow Wilson, the worst president of all time, a vicious racist who led us into World War I, who then created the system that led us into World War ii, who jailed his political opponents for sedition Woodrow Wilson, a truly horrifying who created the bureaucratic state, the worst president of all time. They have that guy ranked above Ronald Reagan. Okay, the reason that I'm reading this is because you have to understand the framework by which our elite institutions work.

0 (6m 58s):
And because of that framework, they're led into both a bizarre delusion that they can't possibly lose to somebody like Donald Trump. And also they're led to believe that they can do anything. They want to stop Donald Trump because after all, If, you have the 14th greatest president of all time according to these people running against literally the worst president of all time. Well, I mean, what can't you do to stop that President of the United States? What can't you do to stop Donald Trump? We'll get to more on this in just one second.

ExpressVPN (7m 26s):
First, do you know what big tech and big government have in common? They both would like to silence dissenting voices into submission If, you talk about something they don't like on social media. Well, good chance your post will be flagged by a content moderator. You might end up on some sort of government watch list to fight back against having your voice censored by both big tech and big government. I recommend Express VPN. The problem with big tech is that not only do they attempt to censor you, they also track what you do online. They track what you're searching for, the videos you watch, everything you click, they can then match your activity to your true identity using your device's unique IP address. When I use Express VPN, they can't see my IP address at all. My identity is anonymized by a secure VPN server plus express VPN encrypts 100% of my internet data for protection from hackers and eaves. Droppers Express VPN is by far the best VPN I've tried. It is the VPN rated number one by Business Insider and countless other tech publications. What I love most about ExpressVPN super easy to use, the app has one button, you tap it, you're protected. It's that simple. So stop letting your voice be censored, defend your rights, and protect yourself at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben. That's E-X-P-R-E SS vpn.com/ Ben to get three months for free. That's ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (8m 31s):
So in the realm of delusion, Nate Silver has been taking it directly on the chin over the weekend because, because the poll analyst put up a piece pointing out that Joe Biden is extremely vulnerable in his reelect effort. He says, quote, if you'd asked me a year ago, I would've told you that Joe Biden was a reasonably clear favorite in the events of a rematch against Donald Trump. Not an overwhelming favorite mind you, but perhaps a 65 35 favorite. The case for Biden seemed obvious enough, incumbents win reelection more often than not. And of course, Biden beat Trump in 2020. Democrats were coming off a relatively strong midterm, so I don't begrudge people who took their time to realize that Biden's reelection would be a heavy lift. The first time my internal needle began to shift was in late summer when Biden's approval numbers remained poor, even as the economy was improving and it was becoming more apparent that his advanced age was an enormous problem for voters and one Democrats weren't going to be able to spin away.

0 (9m 18s):
Since then, Biden's situation has become considerably worse. If, you were 10 years younger, you might still be a 65, 35 favorite, says Nate Silver. But if his campaign is substantially encumbered by his age, he's probably now the underdog. And he says, you guys need to stop being delusional. And he goes through the stats and he points out that Joe Biden has a real problem in his reelect effort, which is why you are seeing people ranging from Nate Silver to Ezra Klein, neither of whom is exactly a Republican calling for Joe Biden to step aside, and he's getting walloped by the left today because it is not possible for Joe Biden to lose. That would simply be impossible. This is why they're still trotting out. Amy Klobuchar, the senator from Minnesota is to claim that Joe Biden is all mentally well and we can clearly see that he is not. Here's Amy Klobuchar.

0 (9m 59s):
Over the weekend

1 (10m 1s):
I was on Air Force one with the president going from Minnesota to Wisconsin for going from Washington DC to Wisconsin for an infrastructure project. And I was with the president for over an hour and talked about so many things, domestic, international, he was focused, his recall was good. It was the same experience that my colleagues had who met with him for hours, Democrats and Republicans about the Mid East only a few weeks ago.

0 (10m 29s):
So he's totally fine according to Amy Klobuchar, and they're gonna continue to maintain this because again, If, you believe that Joe Biden is the 14th greatest president of all time and that Barack Obama was number seven then how's it possible for Joe Biden to lose to Donald Trump? But Team Biden does realize that there's some bad polling numbers for him, and so he's now going to try to pull off a reset according to Axios, they see his State of the Union address is a big public reset moment, so good luck with that. I've seen a lot of state of the unions over my time watching politics, which is several decades at this point. And lemme just say there has never been a state of the Union that acted as an actual reset for a president. There have been good ones and there have been bad ones. It rarely act as a signal moment, okay, but they're gonna try to relaunch Joe Biden.

0 (11m 12s):
Good luck with that. They're launching the Blackberry again into the middle of the iPhone market. According to Axios, many top Democrats are convinced that if the election were held today, Joe Biden would lose a rematch with former President Trump. Biden's State of the Union address is probably going to feature some interesting moves, including, for example, an attempt to change the debate with regard to immigration. Joe Biden is now considering an executive order on immigration that would effectively try to prevent more mass immigration into the United States. He's gonna do this just before the election and attempt to take the issue off the table. Now there's a pretty significant problem with that, which is of course that is a tacit admission that he could have done that all along.

0 (11m 56s):
But again, Joe Biden is realizing that he's vulnerable and so are most Democrats, even though they really don't wanna believe it. And again, because this is a battle of good versus evil, according to Democrats, that means it's time to break a glass in case of emergency, the emergency is here and they're now breaking the glass, and that means that they're unleashing all the hounds of hell on Donald Trump, not just with regard to the criminal legal cases against him, but of course, last week we saw an insane fine levied by Judge Arthur Engoron against Donald Trump's business, the Trump organization. This is an insane judgment. Okay, this judgment is $354 million in damages. So just to recap what this case was, the accusation by Attorney General of the State of New York, Letitia James, was that Donald Trump fraudulently inflated his real estate holdings in an attempt to gain loans from private actors.

0 (12m 48s):
There is no allegation that Donald Trump did not pay back those loans. There is no allegation by the people who actually gave the loans that Donald Trump ought to be prosecuted. They don't even have a case against him because they didn't suffer any damages. This is basically the same thing as If. you went to a lender and you suggested that your house was with more than it actually was worth, and they didn't bother to do an appraisal or they did an appraisal and their appraisal came back and it was kind of within margin of error, or at least it was high enough that they decided, you know what? Booming market will throw the the loan at you anyway. And then later the state came back at you and decided to fine you for a high multiple of whatever the loan was. According to NBC News, the judge who presided over the civil business fraud trial against Trump on Friday, or the former president, his son's business Associates and company, to pay more than $350 million in damages and temporarily limited their ability to do business in New York, of course, had preset this thing.

0 (13m 40s):
It was perfectly obvious from the get go. As soon as this trial laid out, he said, Trump is guilty. and it was just a question of how much money he was going to force Trump to pay. According to New York Attorney General Ian James, they said that with pre-judgment interest, that judgment totals over $450 million. And in order for Trump to appeal, he has to come up with that money. That's the way the process works in New York. It is not as though you get to hold that money in abeyance pending An appeal in appeal you would imagine would end with the overturning of this particular insane verdict. Remember, no damages were alleged. This is a bizarre statute in which the state of New York can charge you with fraud, not criminally civilly, which requires a different standard of evidence. Criminally is beyond a reasonable doubt.

0 (14m 19s):
Civilly is preponderance of the evidence, which means they just have to show by like a majority of the evidence that Donald Trump was fraudulent about his real estate holdings and then they confine him $450 million based on zero damages, which is obviously an attempt to bankrupt him. It's obviously an attempt to make him non-liquid in advance of the election, make him liquidate his assets, creating a an another bunch of headlines, create lack of cash flow for him so he can't actually defend himself in criminal cases around the country. It's an absurd, absurd attempt. What should be an illegal attempt? We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Helix (14m 54s):
First, I've been talking about my Helix mattress for years. I've had that Helix sleep mattress for I don't know what decade at this point. It's the gift that keeps on giving. So I have a lot of issues that keep me from sleeping, namely for small children, and every night when I get into bed, I need to fall asleep right away, which is why I really appreciate my Helix mattress. You will too. Go check out their Helix Elite Collection. Helix harnesses years of extensive mattress expertise to offer a truly elevated sleep experience. That Helix Elite Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for specific sleep positions and firmness preferences. If you're nervous about buying a mattress online, well you don't have to be. Helix has a sleep quiz that mattress, your body type and sleep preferences to the perfect mattress. Why would you buy a mattress made for somebody else? I took that Helix quiz. I was matched with a firm, but Breathable Mattress Plus Helix has a 10 year warranty. You can try it out for a hundred nights risk free. They'll even pick it up for you. If, you don't love it, but you're gonna love it. They're financing options. Flexible payment plans make it really easy. Helix is offering 25% off all mattress orders plus a FREE bedroom bundle. For my listeners in honor of President's Day yesterday, that bundle includes two free pillows, a set of sheets, a mattress protector. Go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben, use code Helix partner 25, it's their best offer yet. Check them out Helix sleep.com/ Ben. Use code Helix partner 25.

0 (16m 2s):
The ruling also bars Trump and his company from even applying for any bank loans for for three years. So he can't even get a bond for this thing, right? Normal. First of all, who's gonna give a bond in the, the amount of $450 million normally when you, you know, get charged with something or you have to come up with the money and you go get a bond, the bond is repayable in a certain period of time and you're talking about, you know, 10 grand. You're not talking about $450 million when your entire business organization has been voided for doing business in his home state for three years, which means he's gonna have to come up with a bunch of money. Obviously Andron also ordered the continued appointment of an independent monitor and the installation of an independent director of compliance for the company. Trump called it an illegal un-American judgment against me, my family, and my tremendous business.

0 (16m 45s):
He said the decision is a complete and total sham. That of course is true. His sons were also ordered to pay $4 million a piece. It also bars them from running the company. That's obviously what this is about. And by the way, this is stacked atop the judgment in favor of Eugene Carroll, the least credible witness of all time, probably in the amount of $83 million. So civil trials where Donald Trump now owes money amount to well over half a billion dollars. All of that initiated since he lost the presidency in November of 2020. This is of course an insane judgment. It is clearly political as the Wall Street Journal editorial board points out, they say that this is like using a hellfire missile to annihilate a shoplifter.

0 (17m 30s):
There was no real financial victim. Letitia James campaigned for office promising to find Trump guilty of something. Okay, well this is initiating a lot of and some blowback. So there are a, there are a bunch of people who are suggesting that they're going to initiate travel boycotts of New York. There was a call by one person online for an attempt by truckers not to ship their goods into the city of New York. That seems to have fallen apart here. This this person calls himself Chicago Ray. He put this up and went viral over the weekend. Here he was,

2 (18m 3s):
I took down that video that I posted on Friday because it went viral, went on TikTok, not because I don't stand by what I said, because I do, but you know, my grandson's seen it and you know, he got a little hurt by it and it hurt my feelings. So you know what the, you know, that's it, it is what it is. I I'm not, no, look, I'm not no figurehead here. I'm not no leader of any movement, not going on any podcasts or, you know, doing any GoFundMe or anything like that. You know, I'm who I am. Alright? I hear chatter, I let you guys know what I heard and you know, that's what it is.

2 (18m 49s):
I'm just saying I stand with Trump, okay? I'm, I'm one of the millions of truckers that stand with Trump. I, that's it. Okay,

0 (19m 2s):
So will there be civil disobedience? I mean he says no, right? But you could see something happen. More likely what you're gonna see happening is every business person in New York who's remotely affiliated with any Republican position is gonna pull their money. If. you are living in New York right now and you are affiliated with the Trump campaign in any way. If, you give money to the Trump campaign, you're gonna rush down to Florida as fast as humanly possible. You're about to see a money drain in the state of New York that is gonna make the last few years pale in comparison. because if you believe that you can live in New York and not have your property expropriate by a judge for what is kind of normal real estate business wheeling and dealing that operates around the edges of New York, and let's be real about how real estate operates in New York, why exactly would you stick around in New York for all of that?

0 (19m 42s):
Meanwhile, federal agencies, the so-called Deep State, they are attempting to insulate their own regulations against the possibility that Trump becomes president again. Now this is the problem with the bureaucratic state initiated by Woodrow Wilson is you have basically an independent body of regulators who work for the Democratic Party and who are just going to ignore whatever Trump tries to do. Now what Trump is pledging to do is he's pledging to bring them under the umbrella of federal law that allows him to fire people. And he totally should. He absolutely should. If he becomes president of the United States regulators who are attempting to enshrine in law permanently regulations that outlive Joe Biden, those people should be fired immediately. Donald Trump is right about that, but they're doing their damnedest to try and thwart Trump should he become president.

0 (20m 23s):
According to Politico, president Joe Biden's allies are getting antsy about his administration's pile up of unfinished environmental rules. Biden's agencies are facing a deadline this spring to finish some of their most important regulations to ensure a Republican Congress and White House cannot erase them at next year. Complicating matters is the fact that the deadline won't be known until months after the rules are completed. Now how is that even legal? How's it legal for them to write regulations that are un repeal by Congress and the, the president of the United States is there's in, is there an independent body in the Constitution of the United States that is allowed to create review free regulations that bind all of us without the input of, you know, their boss, the president, or their boss, the Congress? That's insane. But they're openly reporting that the regulatory state is attempting to enshrine in law all of these regulations to avoid Donald Trump's presidency.

0 (21m 11s):
That's what they're attempting to do. Again, because this is a fight against evil according to these people, and they will use any means at their disposal. Meanwhile, obviously on the foreign front, things are falling into absolute sheer chaos and it's chaos on all sides and it's really quite hideous. So Donald Trump put out a statement over the weekend on the death of Navalny, Alex Navalny. So Alex Navalny, of course, was almost certainly murdered by the Kremlin. He was after he was attempted, they, they tried to kill him back in 2021 when they tried to kill him and failed. Then they then arrested him. He came back to Russia, they arrested him immediately.

0 (21m 53s):
They gave him a 30 year sentence, they sent him to the Gulag and then they almost certainly murdered him in the, the, the current contemporaneous reports coming out suggest that Navalny had body had signs of bruising. This according to metro uk, several officers from the FSB, that's Russia's intelligence service, which is the heir to the KGB, visited the Polar Wolf prison camp earlier this week. According to activists at the Human rights group, gala lagu.net, before the opposition figure dropped dead aged 47 on Friday, the organization claimed CCTV cameras were shut off at the complex in the hours before his death. As well as suggesting the speed at which the authorities made comments on the incident was deeply suspicious. A well-prepared statement likened by the organization to a press release was issued by the prison two minutes after his death was supposed to have taken place.

0 (22m 36s):
Two minutes and seven minutes later, the Kremlin spokesman to meet three Pescov was addressing at the country's press. And that is not what happens after a person dies of natural clauses. It doesn't take the government two minutes to announce his death. It's more on this in just one second.

Policy Genius (22m 51s):
First, no one likes to talk about life insurance But. it is really, really important. You need to include it in your financial planning for this year. Start shopping right now with Policy Genius. Find the right policy to protect your family today. Give yourself the peace of mind that comes with knowing that if something were to happen to you, your family can cover all their expenses while getting back on their feet. Policy Genius technology makes it easy to compare life insurance quotes from America's top insurers in just a few clicks. You already have life insurance policy through work, but that might not actually offer enough protection for your family and If you leave your job, it might not follow you, which is why you need a backup plan and that's where Policy Genius comes in. You can find life insurance policy starting at just $292 per year for a million dollars in coverage. Some options offer same day approval and avoid those unnecessary medical exams. Policy Genius has licensed agents who can help you find the best fit for your needs when they make it this easy, you should just get it done. PolicyGenius works for you, not the insurance company, so they don't have an incentive to recommend one insurer over another. You can trust their guidance, save time and money. Give your family that financial safety net with PolicyGenius. Head on over to policygenius.com/ Shapiro or click the link in the description, Get your free life insurance quote. see how much you could save. That's policygenius.com/ Shapiro.

0 (23m 56s):
In fact, an inmate at the complex told Russian opposition media, other prisoners were informed of only had died at 10:00 AM which is before the officially recorded death time of 2:17 PM and they described how unknown vehicles had arrived at the prison the night before. None of this should be particularly surprising because again, just a few years ago they attempted to poison him with a nerve agent called Nova Chuck. Not only was this well documented, the documentary on HBL that can watch Navalny actually documents Alexia Navalny literally calling up the people who tried to poison him and asking them what they did. He pretends that he's working for the government. He asked them and they just tell 'em straight up that they poisoned his underwear and then they hope that that would make it into his mouth like by drinking a water bottle or something.

0 (24m 36s):
And that that's exactly what happened. He almost died. Local paramedics have told the opposition outlet, Naya 'cause that to Europa, that Navalny only's body is currently being held at a different facility in the same area as the prison. They still have not turned it over. They're not turning it over presumably because there will be signs of actual murder on him. Yulia Navalny, who is his wife, she said her late husband's body is being hidden because they're waiting for traces of yet another of Putin's novik to disappear. Novik is a chemical nerve agent that kills you and then eventually the signs of it wear off in the body. The Russian government thought it had worn off in the body and then the Germans were able to actually detect it last time they used Novik against Navalny. Okay, so Donald Trump then put out a comment on Navalny after several days of without saying anything, and he said, the sudden death of Alexia Navalny has made me more and more aware of what is happening in our country.

0 (25m 23s):
It is a slow, steady progression with crooked radical left politicians, prosecutors, and judges leading us down a path to destruction, open borders, rigged elections. Grossly unfair courtroom decisions are destroying America where a nation in decline, a failing nation, MAGA 2024. Okay, so there are a few things to be said about this one, the last half where he talks about the decline of the country and the militarization of the Justice Department, militarization of our judicial system, all of that part's true. It is totally wrong for Donald Trump to compare that to the judicial arraignment arrest without process, without due process, without real charges jailing and murder of Vladimir Putin's political opponents. And it's wrong for two reasons. One, it suggests that the state of play in the United States is similar to the state of play in Russia, which degrades the United States.

0 (26m 8s):
Things are bad in the United States, they ain't nearly as bad as they are in Russia. That is a difference in kind and we should recognize that because again, many of these problems are fixable with say elections or say with moving or say with impeachments of bad judges if the same is not true remotely in Russia. So it's, it's problematic to compare America to Russia for two reasons. One, it degrades the actual state of play in the United States when you hear journalists traveling abroad and to crying the state of censorship in the United States in Russia where they literally kill the dissidents, that's a bad look. It's not true. Okay, But, it also happens to downgrade the scale of what's happening in Russia, the state of evil that is happening in Russia and Vladimir Putin is in fact a corrupt dictator.

0 (26m 53s):
I know this has become unpopular to say in some circles, I don't know why you can even make the case against American involvement in Ukraine without talking about Putin. But then again, I suppose you can't because here is the thing, it is in America's interest to watch America's geopolitical rivals downgraded in terms of military capacity. It is not in America's interest to watch those geopolitical rivals gobble up large segments of the globe in terms of territory and population that have control over things like grain and oil. Making a real politic case for why the United States should basically acquiesce in Russian military land grabs. That's a very difficult case to make. So the only case that you're left making is effectively that Russia is not that bad or that Ukraine is worse or whatever.

0 (27m 34s):
It's the problem is Russia is kind of that bad. So If, you wanna make the case that America doesn't have geopolitical interest in Ukraine make that case. But many of the people who are making that case are not really making that case. They're making a broader case, which is that Russia is not that bad, that somehow Putin is a guardian of Christianity or Putin is a, is a, a defender of, of Western values against secular liberalism. That's not what Vladimir Putin is. Vladimir Putin is a proponent of Russian greatness. Russian greatness is largely based historically speaking on Russian land control. That has been true for literally hundreds of years. That's by the way Putin will say that himself. In his interview with Tucker Carlson for example, he literally spent the first 35 minutes explaining the history of, of Russia's control of land.

0 (28m 18s):
At no point did he talk about quote unquote the spread of Russian values or the importance of Christianity. In fact, when Tucker tried to prompt him on that, he actually dodged the question. So let's talk about what's in America's interest at this point with regard to Russia what and what Russia's actually doing. So what Russia's attempting to do on a foreign policy level is sort of recreate the Red Green Brown Alliance. So back at the outset of World War ii, there effectively was a Red green brown alliance and that alliance was between the Nazis and the Soviets and the Islamists because people forget about this, but the Islamists were working the entire second World war effectively with the Nazis. Okay? So the new attempt by Russia is to recreate that internationally and with some help from domestic friends in in other countries.

0 (29m 4s):
What that means is that in this particular vision, Russia actually is not red. The reds would be Marxists people on the far left who believe that the west is a nefarious force in the world and that everything bad that's been happening in the world is some sort of weird blowback to America. And those people have advocated for America's enemies for a very, very long time. This would be like Bernie Sanders who suggest that everything that happens in America is what's been driving places elsewhere. And we, we ought to withdraw from the world because it's better for the world for America not to be involved in other parts of the world. America's a nefarious Howard Zen-like force in the world. They're joined by some people on the on the right who have sort of horseshoe ed this thing where America is really, really bad. And again, American foreign policy is responsible for all the blow back that has happened over the course of time.

0 (29m 46s):
So you have sort of this horseshoe theory that you can put in sort of the red category. Then you have the greens, those would be the Islamists, those would be people like the mullahs in Iran or Hamas or Palestinian Islamic Jihad or Bashar Asad or the Houthis, right? Those groups are allied with the Marxist. This is why you see, say queers for Palestine marching in the west, for example. And then you have the Browns. And the browns would be people like Vladimir Putin who actually is a fascist. Vladimir Putin is not a communist. His country is run like a fascist oligarchy. They have like a 13% flat tax. But in order to own property and to have your property be secure, you have to be an ally of the dictator, which is the way that it works over there. China, by the way, is in sort of the same category. China is sort of titularly communist, but they're more fascist than they are communists considering that they've allowed large swaths of market activity inside the country.

0 (30m 30s):
So they're more corporatist at this point than they are actually communist. So this anti-American alliance is what Vladimir Putin is actually pursuing at this point. You can see it cropping up all over the globe. We'll get to more on this in just a moment.

ZipRecruiter (30m 42s):
First, our friends at ZipRecruiter conducted a recent survey. They found the top hiring challenge employers face in 2024 is a lack of qualified candidates. This is certainly true by the way, if you're an employer and you need to hire great news, ZipRecruiter has smart tools and features that help you find more qualified candidates quickly. Right now you can try it for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire as soon as you post your job. ZipRecruiter's powerful matching technology shows you candidates whose skills and experience match your requirements. ZipRecruiter has an invite to apply feature so you can send top candidates a personalized invite and encourage them to respond to your job post. When you use ZipRecruiter's rating tool, they'll send you more matches from new profiles created on the site, and ZipRecruiter can help you conquer your biggest hiring challenge, finding those qualified candidates. Cy, four out of five employers who post on ZipRecruiter get a qualified candidate within day one. Just go to my exclusive web address right now. Try ZipRecruiter for FREE, that's ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Again, ZipRecruiter dot com slash D-A-I-L-Y-W-I-R-E. There is no bigger challenge for an employer than finding great employees. ZipRecruiter can help. Head on over to ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. ZipRecruiter is the smartest way to hire.

0 (31m 46s):
So Russia is now forming Open Alliances with the far left in South America. They've been doing this for a while. This is presumably why Lula de Silva who is supposedly the great savior of democracy. According to the American left in Brazil over the weekend, he literally said, Val's death quote, I'm not gonna jump to conclusions. Let's see what the doctors say. Was the citizen sick? It's like the case of the passenger who died on the plane coming to Ethiopia. Who are we going to blame? So Lula is covering for Navalny at the same exact time. By the way, he's also covering for Kamas. We should point that out. In fact, over the weekend, Lula said that Israel was like Hitler and came out in full scale defense of Kamas. Here he was over the weekend, and by the way, they've now withdrawn their ambassador Brazil has from Israel.

0 (32m 28s):
Here he is. You said what is happening in the Gaza Strip and with the Palestinian people does not exist at any other historical moment.

4 (32m 41s):
Hitler.

0 (32m 42s):
In fact, it existed when Hitler decided to kill the Jews. So full scale anti-Semitic language here, right? The idea is that the Jews are in the new Hitlers and the Palestinians who initiated the murderous rage fest in which they killed 1200 Israeli citizens. They're still holding a hundred Israeli citizens underground in Gaza right now. Hamas could surrender tomorrow. They're not obviously, Lula is upholding the alliance with Hamas, with Palestinian Islamic Jihad, with the radical Islamists with the greens because he is in fact a red and he's making common clause with people like Vladmir Putin who really isn't the red anymore. He's more of a brown vladmir Putin because he's kind of a fascist. And when I say kind of, I mean he has complete governmental control of literally every aspect of his society and is not fully a communist, right?

0 (33m 22s):
He lets the oligarchs keep their money so long as they serve his interests. And you've seen this alliance grow. It's it's, it's a very problematic alliance for the United States because again, Russia now controls large segments in the Middle East. They have an alliance with Iran, for example. They have an alliance with Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad over the weekend. In fact, Hamas was invited by Russia to visit according to the Jerusalem post Palestinian authority. Prime Minister Mohammad Aya said over the weekend, Russia invited Palestinian factions to meet in Moscow at some point in late February. Moscow has already hosted a Hamas allegation in October. In October that Hamas delegation, which was led by Senior Kamas member Musa Abbu Marzuk met with the Russian and Iranian deputy foreign ministers, Micha Bov and Ali Begar Kani.

0 (34m 9s):
That meeting represented a convening of interest between Russia, Iran and Hamas. The relationship between Russia and terrorist groups in the Middle East is quite real obviously. And then you have the left in Europe, which is backing those interests as well. So for example, you have Joseph Burrell, who's the head of EU foreign policy who says that Israel should stop attacking Kamas now because Kamas is really more of an idea as opposed to, you know, a terror group. He said quote, Kamas is an idea, you don't kill an idea, you have to provide an alternative that's better. Which of course is absurd. I mean, Nazism was also an idea and then America Nais killed a bleep load of Nazis obviously. Meanwhile, Iran is on the move as well. So over the weekend, Iran actually destroyed the Houthis, which are an Iranian offshoot San a British ship in the Red Sea.

0 (34m 57s):
According to WNET News, the UK's maritime trade operations agency reported on Monday the Houthis San a ship traveling in the Red Sea south of the port city of Muha in Yemen. It's the first time since Israel's war on Hamas that a crew had to abandon their ship because of the Houthis. Meanwhile, by the way, the United States had to strike five Houthis targets in Yemen, including an underwater drone. That technology is coming from the Iranians who of course are working with the Russians. According to the New York Times, the United States struck five hhy military targets, including an undersea drone and who they controlled areas of Yemen on Saturday. According to the US military, that was the first time Iran back who these had employed such a weapon since they began their campaign against ships in the Red Sea. It was an unmanned underwater vessel, but the Houthis are receiving much of the technology directly from Iran.

0 (35m 41s):
Of course, the formation of this entire coalition, which has happened under the auspices of Joe Biden, is incredibly dangerous to America's interest. The solution to that is not to downplay what Russia is in the world. The solution to that is to face up to what Russia is in the world and to muscularly protect America's interests around the globe. That doesn't mean war everywhere, it does mean that America does certainly have an interest in say, free shipping across the world, wherever the cost is of the Ukraine war, it's significantly less than what happens if freedom of the seas decreases to the point where every ship is avoiding the Red Sea and the Suez Canal. Completely get to more on this in just one second.

Daily Wire Plus (36m 18s):
Right now is your chance to get 30% off Daily Wire Plus annual memberships during our President's Day sale. When you use Code DW 30 a checkout your Daily Wire Plus Membership is your backstage pass to conversations with the smartest and most trusted talented in America. It's your front row seat to the Daily wires upcoming hit movies in series like the Pen Pendragon Cycle, Mr. Burham and Moore. It's your inside access to ad free uncensored news and opinions that matter to you. You get it all and so much more with your Daily Wire Plus Membership. Right now it's 30% off during our President's Day sale. Head over to Daily Wire dot com slash subscribe. Use code DW 30 at checkout.

0 (36m 48s):
Meanwhile, of course, all this was led off by the American surrender in Afghanistan to the eighth century thugs who were the Taliban. And now as it turns out, unsurprisingly, remember that time that Joe Biden said that Al-Qaeda would never be in Afghanistan again, that we had achieved our purposes. Spoiler alert, they're in Afghanistan again. According to the Jerusalem Post, the Al-Qaeda terrorist organization is having a resurgence in Afghanistan under the ruling Taliban setting up eight new training camps alongside five madrasas Islamic educational institutions around the country. That is a report from the UN Security Council from late January. The report said the training camps are located in various provinces including Kni, Laman, Pawan and Ugan. It also listed sites used by Al-Qaeda to move its operatives in and out of neighboring Iran and said that a new base to stockpile weaponry has been established in the pane valley north of the capital of Kabul.

0 (37m 34s):
Again, what we are watching in real time is a, an alliance of convenience between Russia and China and it's including Iran. And those countries are seeking to make common cause with left wing countries in South America and in Africa as well to create effectively an anti-American block. That is what is happening in real time, and that's been led off by the era of Joe Biden Surrender Laden politics. There's a lot of attempt here, by the way, to pass this off as a result of Trump, but let's be real about this. Iran was fairly contained while Donald Trump was president of the United States. There were quite fearful. Russia was fairly contained while Donald Trump was president of the United States, they were fearful if not of his rhetoric then of his unpredictability. China was not exactly certain what Donald Trump was going to do, but they are perfectly certain of what Joe Biden is going to do, and that is put up a soft show of force.

0 (38m 22s):
Slow walk aid to America's allies, vacillate because the Democratic party is vacillating. This is why when Joe Biden tries to suggest, for example, that the blood of Alex Navalny is on the hands of Republicans. That's an amazing statement. He's the current president of the United States. If the President gets the credit or blame for what happens while he's president, I noticed that this old dude is the current president of the United States here he was over the weekend.

5 (38m 48s):
Would you go as far to say that on the of council Republicans right now? I didn't that they're making a big mistake, not his fault. Look,

0 (38m 59s):
He, he said, I wouldn't use that term, but they're making a big mistake not responding, says Joe Biden. Well, I noticed that you said that you were going to have harsh response for Navalny if he died. That's something that Joe Biden said when Navalny returned to Russia and then Navalny was immediately arrested in Gul lagged, Joe Biden said there would be significant repercussions for Russia. Should that happen, shouldn't have only been murdered. Well now Na Only's been murdered and Joe Biden ain't doing bleep. But again, this is a broad scale problem for the United States and it is a conflict of vision with regard to foreign policies. I would say the foreign policy debate in the United States breaks down into at least four camps. First, there are the neocons who have sort of an outsized role in the American imagination because of the Warner Rock. The neocons essentially made the argument, the Wilsonian argument, that it was America's job to preserve and foster democracy everywhere on earth, regardless as to whether it was in America's direct or indirect interest, that effectively American values had to be spread no matter what.

0 (39m 51s):
And that the safest world was a world in which American values predominated, even in places that were very unfriendly to American values, that school of thought has basically gone by the wayside. And anybody who says the word NeoCon right now with regard to the vast majority of politicians is, is just talking nonsense. The vast majority of politicians, even on the, on the sort of hawkish, right, we're not in favor, for example of the war in Libya or direct American involvement in Syria, and many of them are not in favor of, for example, heavy involvement even in Ukraine today. So again, the the sort of NeoCon idea was thoroughly defeated by Donald Trump in 2016 and was rather significantly discredited by the Warner Rock.

0 (40m 31s):
So that that school of thought, I would say has been largely marginalized. Then there is the sort of real politic school of thought, which is there are certain conflicts in which America does have an interest and that doesn't mean boots on the ground. It means sometimes money, it means sometimes boots on the ground depending on just how strong those interests are. But America does in fact have foreign interests and America must apply its leverage in strategic ways in order to achieve those interests. That means getting involved in some conflicts with money, say funding Ukraine to stop Russia from taking over kyiv, but not necessarily throwing money down the rabbit hole of attempting to have them take over Crimea, which is not going to happen. For example, I would count myself in the real politic camp of American foreign policy. So those are two groups.

0 (41m 11s):
Then you have the isolationists isolationists sort of suggest that America has no interest in what goes around the world, what what's happening anywhere that America's interests are simply domestic and that any dollar that is spent outside of America's borders is therefore a bad dollar. I think this is shortsighted and wrong, but you understand the tendency, it's shortsighted in the sense that America actually does have a very strong interest in, for example, freedom of the seas. America has an incredibly strong interest in how, for example, oil flows around the globe that does affect American citizens. America does in fact have a very strong interest in American allies being prevented from falling or being destroyed or being significantly harmed because those allies are the ones who are going to come to our defense if, God forbid there were an attack on the United States, right?

0 (41m 54s):
There are a bunch of foreign interests that exist. I think the isolationist position is untenable and when people suggest that it's somehow immoral that foreign aid in general is immoral. I just wonder what they would've said about the Marshall Plan. Was the Marshall Plan immoral? The Marshall Plan literally rebuilt all of Western Europe. If it had not happened, then the Soviets would've taken all of Western Europe. Would that have been fine also, I assume the answer is yes. I think that's incredibly shortsighted, but that isolationist wing is a, is a third wing, and then there's the fourth horseshoe theory wing of foreign policy. And the horseshoe theory wing is occupied by an increasingly large segment of the left and shockingly in a small but increasingly large segment of the right. And that horseshoe theory wing is not isolationist in the sense that it's just not in America's interest to be involved in foreign policy. It's the idea that America itself is deeply flawed and bad and that every act that happens abroad is a result of the evils of the United States, of, of past American interventionism, of America's foreign interests and that America should retreat from the world, not because it's in America's interest to do so, but because it's in the world's interest for America to do so.

0 (42m 52s):
And that theory involves the propping up of terrible dictators. It involves the leaving in power of some of the world's worst people. It involves leaving allies out to dry, right? That sort of stuff is the fourth wing of American politics. And the problem that we are seeing right now is a conflation of various wings of American politics on all sides of the, of the various aisles. So let us be clear when it comes to Joe Biden's foreign policy, Joe Biden's foreign policy vacillates between sort of what he thinks is the real politic and the horseshoe theory, it vacillates strongly between those two polls because that's where the Democratic party is split between the real politic. There's some Democrats who still understand that America has foreign interests and those Democrats, for example, support foreign aid to Ukraine and Israel by and large.

0 (43m 40s):
And then you have the Democratic wing that is sort of the radical young people who believe that America is bad and terrible in the world and basically should revert to its own borders and then open those borders. And that wing is very prominent. That's the Rashida TB wing of the Democratic Party that is a very real wing. And so you've seen the Biden administration because Joe Biden can't actually bridge that gap vacillating between the two positions wildly. And that has led the rest of the world to conclude that America is in fact quite weak and the rest of the world is not necessarily wrong on that score. Meanwhile, as far as the Republicans who Joe Biden is blaming for all of this, it's unclear exactly what the Republican Party is doing at this point because the Republican party has laid out various different views of its own on exactly what American foreign policy should look like, and you actually have wi members of probably all four wings of the foreign policy establishment that I just described in the Republican party.

0 (44m 32s):
You have members of like two wings in the Democratic Party and you have members of probably all four wings in the Republican party. You have a small niche sort of NeoCon wing, a very large real politic wing. You have a a, a small but growing isolationist wing and you have an even smaller but still growing wing of horseshoe theory folks, and the Republican party is split between all of those, which leads to a very confused and confusing take on what foreign policy ought to be. So it's unclear exactly what's going to happen in the House of Representatives. All I would say is, is it in America's interest for Russia to take Ukraine hole, not for Russia to maintain the Donbas or Crimea and end the war? I think everybody, if they could make that deal happen, whose of rational mind wants that deal to happen? The question is whether Vladimir Putin wants that deal to happen. I see no indicators at this point that he does.

0 (45m 12s):
He believes the West is going to collapse. Why does he believe that? Well, maybe 'cause of Afghanistan, maybe 'cause of Vietnam, maybe 'cause of Iraq, maybe 'cause every major foreign policy commitment that the West has made over the course of the last 40 years, certainly since the end of the Cold War, has largely ended with the West retreating to its own borders and nefarious powers taking territory, whether you're talking about Hong Kong or you're talking about Afghanistan. So Vladimir Putin is simply playing for time. Meanwhile again, the Republicans are very split on this sort of stuff. They're not sure exactly what to do. Representative Mike Turner, who's the head of the House Intelligence Committee of Ohio, he says that that right now the House speaker is trying to clear a path for Ukraine aid, but having a tough time of it.

7 (45m 49s):
As you know, president Zelensky has been asking for this aid since October for five months. Now, has Speaker Johnson given you any assurances that he is going to bring Ukraine aid to the floor?

6 (46m 2s):
Well, president Johnson has made a number of public statements committing to finding a pathway for the aid for Ukraine. I believe him. I think that we will, and this does need to get done. This is absolutely critical for us support for Ukraine and to oppose Russian aggression.

0 (46m 19s):
I mean, we will find out, but one of the big problems, of course, is that because all the parties are split along various lines, it's not even clear what people want from Ukraine. So according to Politico people in Munich, there's a Munich security conference and a bunch of people showed up from various countries. Senator Mark Warner, democrat of Virginia and chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee said that the aid package being considered would be quote unquote a game changer for Ukraine. But he did not make clear exactly what victory even looked like. He declined to say that the support would ensure Ukrainian triumph. Instead, he just said that it was sort of the last hope. It's unclear exactly what's going to happen in Ukraine, and this is part of the problem. Joe Biden has not even articulated what an end looks like in Ukraine, it's why you're seeing the rising isolationists and horseshoe theory wing.

0 (47m 1s):
'cause you do in fact have to tell your own citizens what the hell your plans are when you spend significant amounts of foreign aid abroad. Even If, you wanna say, as I would say, that we are better off funding Ukraine to stave off a Russian taking of kyiv with the less than 1% of money that we spend on our federal budget every year. And a fairly insignificant percentage even of our defense budget to basically restock our shelves grease the wheels in terms of getting our military production capacity up to, up to snuff. Right? Even If, you wanna make that argument, make the argument, nobody's making any of these arguments and it's truly annoying to me. Meanwhile, China, of course is seeing a bunch of weakness. According to the Wall Street Journal. The Chinese military had a giant military exercise about three months ago in the South China Sea in the Philippines Sea, actually the Philippines Sea, which is a swath of the Pacific Ocean, east of Taiwan, was the site a site of a decisive aircraft carrier battle in World War II between the United States and Japan.

0 (47m 57s):
And carriers are now once again gathering there and for good reason, control of the Philippines Sea would be prized in any conflict between the China and the United States over Taiwan or the South China Sea. US warships troops and supplies deployed from bases on Guama, Hawaii would likely need to transit through that area and China would want to interrupt those flows. You're seeing the Chinese attempting to take control of that particular location. In October of 2023, Chinese aircraft carrier and four other warships did a drill there. In September, they did another drill in this particular area. In January, the United States held a drill there and vacillation at home leads to foreign aggression. Vladimir Lenin famously suggested that his foreign policy was probe with bayonets push where there's mush.

0 (48m 38s):
America's enemies know that and they're seeing an awful lot of mush at this point. Okay, meanwhile, on the American domestic front, America's racial problems continue to be seen in the halls of woke academia. It was an amazing interview that was done with the Free press by Roland Friar. Roland Friar is a Harvard professor who became the youngest black person ever to be awarded tenured in Ivy League school at the age of 30. He says that he faces threats and had to get armed security after he published a study in 2016 showing no racial bias in police involved shootings. In fact, his research found that officers were less likely to shoot black people than white people in similar situations. Although the difference was not statistically significant as the Epic Times points out, he said, I let the data talk and I don't care what it cost.

0 (49m 25s):
But then apparently he told Barry Weiss, who's the editor of the Free Press and the founder of it, he told her that he expected his research to show different conclusions. But when the research showed no bias in police involved shootings, he hired a new team of assistants and repeated the exact same study. The results were the same. His Harvard colleagues told him not to publish because they were worried that he would ruin his career. He did run it and in fact it did ruin his career. Former Harvard President Claudine Gay, alleged that Friar's conduct with regard to one of his aides, exhibited a pattern of behavior that failed to meet expectations. And he was suspended from Harvard two years after being accused of engaging in unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature.

0 (50m 5s):
He denied all of that, obviously. Here is Roman Friar discussing with Barry Weiss what it means to cross the establishment at one of these universities.

9 (50m 14s):
One of the details in this story is that you were suspended by a woman who I had never heard of until recently. Her name is Claudine Gay, and she said this in a letter to the economics department. At the time, professor Fryer exhibited a pattern of behavior that failed to meet the expectations of conduct within our community and was harmful to the wellbeing of its members. The totality of these behaviors is a clear violation of institutional norms and a betrayal of trust of the Harvard community. So I guess I wanna ask, do you believe in karma

11 (50m 54s):
Here? It's a

9 (50m 59s):
And also, does calling for the genocide of Jews constitute bullying and harassment? Yes or no?

11 (51m 4s):
A thousand percent.

0 (51m 6s):
Again, the fact that that is hard to say at Harvard University, but get rid of Rowland Friar was very easy to say at Harvard University is demonstrative of where our racial politics currently stands. You know, over the weekend, joy Reed had herself a, a sane and solid day. She suggested that she deserves reparations, did Joy Reed, which is weird since her parents are immigrants to the country and are not in fact American in the sense of of slaves. Here was Joy Reed talking about race in America

12 (51m 34s):
To be a a a black person in, you know, 2024 in America is to be in a state of complete perplexed confusion about what is wrong with a country that hates your history to this day. Can't admit even the basics of what was done to your ancestors. Can't accept any responsibility for the lack that has carried through the entirety of the existence of you in this country and think 60 years of relative freedom is enough. And to find out that literally Barack Obama's two terms in pre as president are your reparations and juneteenth, which you already celebrated anyway, is your reparations.

12 (52m 16s):
And yet you built this country. You literally physically built this country and yet the attitude toward you from a lot of your peers and your fellow citizens is just shut up and be grateful.

0 (52m 32s):
Okay, so let's be clear about Joy Reed. She did not physically build this country. In fact, nobody of this generation has physically built this country to be realistic. You're talking about whether in fact, slaves were the predominant drivers of the American economy in the Antebellum era. And there's some pretty hotly fought economic debate over this. The typical answer is no, actually slavery is a drag on economic productivity pretty much everywhere that it is practiced. But put aside that entire argument, joy Reed saying this, talking about how it's very difficult to be Joy Reed. It's pretty astonishing considering again, her dad is from Congo and her mom is from Guiana and, and she's a multi-millionaire. But this is the state of our racial discourse in the United States already. Folks coming up, we are going to get into S Science, some new scientific discoveries that are shocking in the extreme.

0 (53m 17s):
If you're not a member, become member Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free and all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

14 (53m 27s):
Dental Associates of Northern Virginia redefine what it means to visit the dentist. Get top quality, personalized support from committed experts who prioritize the wellbeing and satisfaction of you and your family care is centered on a highly personalized treatment plan backed by the trust and support of long lasting relationships. Schedule your next appointment by visiting Dental one-va.com/offer/siriusxm.