0 (0s):
Joe Bidens DOJ appoints David Weiss special counsel in the Hunter Biden investigation, and we examine why that's a Coverup Republican candidates descend on the Iowa State Fair as Donald Trump swoops in for a visit and a blue collar man creates the viral song of the moment. I'm m Ben Spiro This is The Ben Shapiro Show.

ExpressVPN (20s):
The Ben Spiro Show sponsor sponsored by ExpressVPN Protect your online privacy today at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (25s):
So it was only a matter of time until the true Coverup of the Coverup began. So in order to understand why the Joe Biden DOJ just appointed David Weiss special counsel in a case he was already investigating, you have to understand the timeline. So basically Joe Bidens son, Hunter Biden has been under investigation since 2019. He's been under investigation for a wide variety of tax offenses. He was also under investigation for gun crimes. Well, just a few weeks ago, it turned out that a plea deal had been cut between David Weiss, who is the US attorney in charge of prosecuting and investigating the Hunter Biden case and Hunter Bidens legal team. And that plea agreement was a sweetheart deal. Without a doubt. The way the sweetheart deal worked was this, essentially he would get no time whatsoever for any of his tax crimes and he would also get no time.

0 (1m 12s):
He'd get a diversion for his gun crimes. But not only did the plea deal do that, it also basically immunized him from all further criminal charges with regard to anything tax or funding related, which of course is all the Hunter Biden, Joe Biden stuff, that's all of his Foreign Agents Registration Act violations. That's him going abroad, picking up sacks of cash and and questioning whether those crimes involved, Joe Biden, all of that would've just gone away. And the DOJ tried to bury this in the deal. The DOJ, instead of putting this in the plea agreement with regard to the tax charges when they went to court, instead they put it in the diversion agreement with regard to the gun charges so that it was not actually under the purview of the judge who was presiding over the tax charges, but it would be left to the judge to actually enforce that plea agreement.

0 (1m 52s):
Nonetheless, the judge caught on to this. The judge said, hold up a second. I don't understand. Are you guys basically wiping away all of his other crimes with this plea agreement or are you not? And at that point, the DOJ, which was in fact attempting to wipe away and cover up all of Hunter, Bidens other crimes with the plea agreement, at that point, they got caught with their hands in the cookie trying and said, no, no, no, no, no, we weren't trying to wipe away all these future crimes. And when they said that Hunter Bidens legal team was like, well, then we don't have a deal. What do you think this deal was? You think he was just gonna plead out on the tax charges and the gun charges without wiping away all future prosecutions on similar charges like the corruption with Joe Biden or the Foreign Agents Registration Act issues? You think we were just gonna sign our names on the dotted line for a kind of quasi sweetheart deal?

0 (2m 32s):
No, we want the whole thing, otherwise we're going to court. And the DOJ said, well, we were going to give you the whole thing, but then we kind of got caught giving you the whole thing and the entire arrangement blew up. The judge in that case said that she had never seen any deal remotely like that deal. And all of this played simultaneously with I r s whistleblower, Gary Shapley testifying before Congress that David Weiss the special, the the US attorney in this particular case had not been granted special counsel status. Now, why would that have have mattered? Well, if he'd been given special counsel status, he would've been allowed to prosecute Hunter Biden. Basically, wherever Hunter Biden committed a crime, he would've been given enough independence to go after Hunter Biden. However, he believed he needed to go after Hunter Biden. But according to Gary Shapley, David Weiss said that he had actually been denied by Joe Bidens DOJ special counsel status in the investigation of Hunter Biden.

0 (3m 20s):
In fact, here is the I R S whistleblower, Gary Shapley testifying in open congressional testimony that David Weiss said he was denied special counsel status.

3 (3m 30s):
And that's when David Weiss in October 7th, 2022 said that the D C U S attorney's office, that DEC will not allow us to charge there. And then he added that he would request special coun, he requested special counsel authority and was denied in that meeting. I even had him repeat that because I knew how important that fact was and I wanted to make sure I understood it. You were

4 (3m 52s):
There and you were remember crystal clear in your mind?

3 (3m 56s):
Not only do I remember it crystal, crystal clear, but I documented it. The email that's an exhibit in the house ways means committee testimony was when I returned home that evening, I documented it in a, in an email and a in. It's an exhibit. You can look right on there.

0 (4m 12s):
Okay. So Shapley said he was actually prevented from pursuing any leads that involved Joe Biden, including an infamous 2017 email from James Gilliad, a business associate of Hunter Biden, which bore the subject line expectations and outlined a provisional agreement for equity in a deal with a Chinese energy company that included the famous phrase now 10 held by H for the big guy. Shapley says he wanted to investigate that and who's prevented from doing so by David Weiss and by the people who are in charge of this investigation who were not given special counsel status. Now the DOJ then said, well, we didn't give special counsel status because he never asked for special counsel status. But of course, that's not how special counsel status works. You don't walk into the DO J'S office and say, I would like special counsel status. You don't walk into Merrick Garland's office and say, listen, I hereby request special counsel status.

0 (4m 54s):
You are given special counsel status voluntarily by the DOJ because they want to establish some form of independence from the actual investigation that's going on. This, for example, is why they gave special counsel status to Jack Smith and the Donald Trump investigation so they could at least claim that it wasn't Merrick Garland and Joe Biden doing that. They didn't bother doing that with Hunter because they clearly wanted their fingers still in the pie with regard to Hunter Biden. Okay, well, all of this controversy led up to Merrick Garland over the, over the weekend on Friday, announcing that David Weiss would now be appointed the special counsel. Now understand the timing here is everything. David Weiss should have been a account appointed special counsel. If they wanted special counsel like at the very beginning, then he would've had the full powers to go after Hunter Biden, but he was not given that special counsel status, so he didn't have the power to go after Hunter Biden.

0 (5m 38s):
Then David Weiss anytime during the subsequent period, could have been given that special counsel status and then he was not. And then the Hunter Biden plead deal came through and it blew up. And then Gary Shapley testified, and now it appeared that David Weiss was going to be dragged in front of Congress to explain why he was not given special counsel status, and he was gonna have to actually testify in Congress under oath in danger of perjury. He was gonna have to testify whether Merrick Garland and the DOJ had basically told him how to handle the case. So in order to forced all that Merrick Garland and the DOJ then gave him special counsel status, and in doing so, they accomplished a couple of things. One, they backfilled the special counsel status when it was basically too late. And two, they now essentially prevent Congress from calling him in for questioning because anything he he's questioned about, now he can say it's part of an ongoing investigation, so he can't answer it.

0 (6m 26s):
So if he's asked about why he wasn't given special counsel status before, he can say, well, I have special counsel status now and I can't really speak about what was happening before because that is all part of a case that is now ongoing. So this is a Coverup of a Coverup. Understand the original crime was Hunter Biden and Joe Biden and doing whatever it was they were doing. And we still don't know all the answers there, but it's pretty obvious what was going on. And then part two was the Coverup, which was appoint a person who is not a special counsel to investigate that thing and have that person cut a sweetheart deal with Hunter Biden, and then when that blows up, you get the Coverup of the Coverup, which is now give that exact same person special counsel status as we'll. Explain in just a second, it probably isn't even legal under the special counsel statute to actually give David Weiss special counsel status at this point. First, as central banks in countries like China, India, and Australia begin transitioning.

0 (7m 8s):
So a digital currency, the Federal Reserve has been contemplating doing the same thing for the United States. This is super dangerous stuff because a fully digital currency means the government can manipulate everything you do financially. They can track every single purchase you make. Officials could even prohibit you from purchasing certain products or easily freeze or seize part or all of their money. These are just some of the reasons concerned Americans reach out to my friends over at Birch Gold. They wanna have a physical asset like gold. It's independence of the United States Dollar. You can protect your I R A or 4 0 1 K by diversifying with gold from birch gold. Historically, gold has been a safe haven in times of high uncertainty right now would be one of those times learn of gold is right for you. Ask all of your questions by texting Ben to 98. 98 98, they'll send you a free infokit on gold. You've got an eight plus rating with the better business Bureau, thousands of happy customers, countless five star reviews.

0 (7m 50s):
I trust Birch Gold to help you diversify into gold. If a central bank digital currency becomes a reality, it'll be nice to have some gold to depend upon. Again, text Ben to 98. 98. 98 To. get started. That is 98. 98. 98 To. get started with my friends over at Birch Gold today. Okay, so as it turns out, it may not even be legal for Merrick Garland to do what he's doing Here was Merrick Garland appointing at David Weiss special counsel.

5 (8m 13s):
This appointment confirms my commitment to provide Mr. Weiss all the resources he requests.

6 (8m 18s):
Attorney General Merrick Garland said David Weiss himself asked for special counsel status after leading the criminal probe into the president's son. Since 2018,

5 (8m 28s):
The appointment of Mr. Weiss reinforces for the American people, the department's commitment to both independence and accountability and particularly sensitive matters.

0 (8m 39s):
Okay, so just a few minutes after this happened, DOJ lawyers can ask the court in Delaware where this entire plea agreement blew up, if they could withdraw the case against Hunter Biden so they could refile the charges in Washington, DC and California and quote unquote do it the right way, was the Wall Street Journals, Holman Jenkins points out this whole, whole thing is a sham. It's absurd. According to Holman Jenkins, he says, to get fully right side up, even by its own dubious standards, the department needs not just to name a special counsel in the Hunter Biden case, it needs to return to the status or of ordinary prosecutor Jack Smith, the special counsel in the Donald Trump case. How can it be a conflict of interest for the department to throw the book at criminals who also happen to be the president's political enemies? It's not. Smith was only named after a leak signaling. Joe Bidens displeasure with the department for not being aggressive enough against Mr.

0 (9m 22s):
Trump. The DOJ has every natural incentive to throw the book at Trump. If it couldn't convince itself it had sufficient grounds, this might be a problem, but it's a corruption of the Special counsel concept to believe it's a problem the special counsel regulation should solve. AG Merrick Garland's Friday announcement in the Hunter Biden case is bizarre in a different way. When examined against special counsel. Logic Garland said the Hunter investigation reach the stage where such an appointment was appropriate, but what stage? They went through the entire investigation, literally the whole investigation, and then they tried to cut a sweetheart deal and then it blew up. At which stage was it not appropriate to actually make him special counsel? The answer is this stage because as it turns out, the Special counsel is supposed to come from outside the government. You're not supposed to just give an ordinary attorney working for the government special counsel status this way.

0 (10m 4s):
Maybe he is saying that it has now reached a new stage, is an absurdity. As Holman Jenkins points out, he says, this would be the stage where I r s collaborators publicly accuse Weiss and his DOJ overseers of violating normal procedures go easier on Hunter than they would on any other alleged offender is Mr. Weiss, the special counsel now going to investigate Mr. Weiss, the ordinary US attorney's problematic handling of the case, like how's this going to work? Exactly? Is Mr. Weiss going to start noticing the accumulating evidence that Joe Biden actively abedded his son's access peddling scheme? Is he gonna follow up on charges by his own I r s colleagues? His actions in the investigation were tainted by favoritism toward Hunter. The only reason they're doing this is so he can refuse to testify in front of the House committee recently.

0 (10m 44s):
This would include unearthing the alleged receipt by multiple members of the Biden family of millions of bucks from Hunter's International dealings. So now this is basically just a way of shielding David Weiss from the investigation of the original Coverup by creating a new Coverup. This is what the head of the House Oversight committee James Comer was saying. He says, I was about to connect Joe Biden to criminal activity and then they dumped this on us.

7 (11m 5s):
We've produced more evidence than anyone that's supposedly investigating this criminal activity by the Biden family. And right as we get to the point to where we've traced it to Joe Biden and we're at a position where we can win in court to fight their attorneys and get their actual personal bank records, he comes out with this, this is another attempt to try to obstruct. They're gonna try to use this in court when they say no, we can't give the Oversight committee our bank records because there's an ongoing investigation right by David White.

0 (11m 38s):
Okay? It it is absolutely absurd on every level. Now, Democrats in the media are predictably spinning this as now everyone's being super unfair to Hunter Biden. Here's Democratic representative Jerry Connolly saying that, you know, normal people wouldn't be subjected to this level of scrutiny. Are you kidding? If a normal person bought a gun claiming they were not a drug addict while they were a drug addict, and then a girlfriend threw it in a trash can across the street from a school and then it disappeared, do you think that person would not be in jail if a person committed crimes to the tunes of millions of dollars in tax evasion? Do you think that would just go by the wayside and no one would care? Do you think there would be no Foreign Agents Registration Act investigation of $20 million entering a family's coffers because they're traveling around the world making promises on behalf presumably of the vice president of the United States?

0 (12m 21s):
Like this is insanity. Hearst Connolly,

8 (12m 24s):
A lot of people make assumptions about people in public life getting a special deal, wink, blink. Often it's the opposite that they're gonna get. No, no corn is cut at all. They're gonna, they're gonna have the book thrown at them because nobody wants to be perceived as showing favoritism in the justice system or in the police unfolding acts. So I think you're right. I think you know, Hunter Bidens being subjected here to a level of not only scrutiny, but accountability that most mere mortals would not,

0 (13m 0s):
Most mere mortals would not dude, most mere mortals who are crack addicts, who are addicted to hookers. Those people don't end up with millions and millions of dollars in their bank account because their last name isn't Biden. It's pretty obvious what is happening here. My favorite defender here is Joy Reed. Joy Reed, who is constantly talking about the two track system of justice in the United States. The systemic racism of the criminal justice system. Well, now she's out there saying Hunter is, I mean, I just can't believe how, how unfairly Hunter is being treated.

9 (13m 29s):
In other words, he's, he's being treated differently because he's Joe Bidens son. I wanna read this little piece here. The particular gun charge that the Feds brought against Joe Biden. This is from the Daily Beast. A drug user in possession of a firearm is rarely brought as a standalone crime, especially now that roughly a fifth of the country uses cannabis with an inevitably significant overlap with the nation's estimated 80 million gun owners is more than that. I think when the Feds do bring this type of case, they come down hard, but it's usually a tool they use to take down tough to arrest criminals like militant white nationalists, Islamist terrorists, or narco traffickers. I think all the evidence that I've seen so far in this case is that Joe, is it Hunter?

9 (14m 9s):
Biden? He could be a terrible guy. I don't know. Never met him, is being treated worse than anyone else would be.

0 (14m 17s):
Was that I, I have a question. Would Joy Reed say this about any white Republican, any white Republican, any white non Joe Biden son, how about that? Would you ever me to ever say anything remotely like that about a rich white man getting off on these types of crimes Ever must protect the precious and the precious, of course, is the Biden family. We'll get to more of this in just one second.

Good Ranchers (14m 37s):
First, I don't about you, but the summer heat in South Florida. Well it is. It is hot down here. One thing, you shouldn't have to be sweating this hot summer at the price of meat. Well, thanks to Good Ranchers, you don't have to because your price can be locked in for two years. You might be thinking a price lock guarantee on meat. Yes, it is amazing and you need it because Joe Bidens inflation, it's not over yet. Good Ranchers is the only meat company locking in your price with their industry first price lock guarantee. Since 2021, they've been helping people combat the inflation of the meat aisle as well as the mystery of it too. It turns out, over 85% of grass fed beef is important for overseas. So not only is store bought meat expensive, it's often low foreign quality as well. When you subscribe to Good Ranchers, you get a guaranteed price and a trusted 100% American source for your favorite cuts. You can save on your beef, chicken and pork by locking in your price. Today. Every single steakhouse quality cut is individually wrapped in flash frozen. To make mealtime easy, visit Good Ranchers dot com. Use my code Ben for 30 bucks off any box. That's promo code Ben at Good Ranchers dot com. Good Ranchers dot com is indeed American Meat delivered. I love my Good Ranchers. At least they made me a kosher steak one time. I gotta tell. He is an amazing piece of meat. They do a great job with all of their meat. I'm jealous of all of those who get to enjoy it on a regular basis. Go to Good Ranchers dot com, use code Ben for 30 bucks off any box alrightyy.

0 (15m 42s):
So N B C legal analyst Danny Savalas, he has a, a similar sort of take. He says, yeah, you know what's, what's amazing about this is the special counsel now has independence. You mean now he does. I don't understand why didn't he have it before? That would've been the question, would it not?

10 (15m 58s):
What

11 (15m 58s):
Added authority does it give to Weiss and what are the implications for Hunter? Biden himself?

10 (16m 6s):
The primary added authority is really independence. The special counsel no longer will have to be ruled over by the, by the Attorney General. Although technically special counsel does have to report to the Attorney General. And in a way, the Attorney General had already indicated that David Weiss had broad investigatory power. So the real question is, what inference can we draw from David Weiss's request to become special counsel?

0 (16m 34s):
I mean, the inference is that he wants to cover up what is going on. Clearly. Clearly it's amazing even CNN's Jake Tapper. Now listen, I, I think Jake, you know, obviously is a left-leaning guy, but he at least attempts to be objective in his analysis sometimes. So Jake and some of the others on C N N actually questioned the special counsel appointment. Rightly so.

12 (16m 55s):
The US attorney had made the decision to have it just be a diversion program and a misdemeanor, right? But now it merits a special counsel. So does he know of stuff that should be in a special counsel investigation that wasn't in that plea deal? I mean, maybe he does, but then why do that plea deal? It's all right. It's all very suspicious. It's

13 (17m 12s):
Fascinating. Remember we've heard already from David Weiss about what the process was like. He has said, I have the authority to do so. All the talking points are contrary to what my experience was. But now this raises a lot of questions. And whatever happened on Tuesday, as what Paul is alluding to now, does make me feel surprised about, well, why now? What is happening here? Remember, he is still the US attorney in Delaware, but now this special counsel allows him to actually go beyond his own jurisdiction. You can look at other areas as well. It's the reason you have Jack Smith not having to confine to one particular jurisdiction. He can go beyond that. He can have things in in Florida, he can have things in Washington dc It does now go beyond that. But at its core, I wonder what the decision really came down to.

13 (17m 52s):
The special counsel statute says you can have this if you first look to figure out does a matter actually warrant an investigation? Is it warranted? He had concluded that it did. If you're Garland, was there a conflict of interest at play here?

0 (18m 6s):
Okay. I mean, it is pretty amazing when even C N N is like, guys, this is, this is pretty weird. Meanwhile, Hunter Bidens attorney Abby Lowell was asked point blank, if Hunter Bidens foreign business dealings wouldn't any way connect back to Joe Biden. Listen to the lawyerly language here from Abby Lowell.

14 (18m 20s):
But can you answer the question about whether or not you're, from what you know, if you're confident that this won't in any way link back to the president,

15 (18m 28s):
What I know is what the evidence is revealed, I mean, that is what people should focus on. It's not as if this started yesterday or a week. It started for five years with so many people in the United States, including with the power of subpoenas, as Mr. Weiss has had to look at every transaction that Hunter was engaged in, in any place in the world in which he was engaged. And what did they come up with? They came up with a decision that the only two charges to file were two misdemeanors and a gun diverted charge. Not any of the other things that the Mago right wing have been yelling from money laundering to foreign corruption to foreign agent, none of that.

0 (19m 5s):
You notice what that wasn't, that wasn't a full scale, full frontal denial of a relationship between Joe and Hunter's business. You notice that wasn't what that was. So there won't be any evidence that's uncovered. I know what the evidence is uncovered thus far, but where is the, where is the full throated? Joe and Hunter? Were not in business together in any way, shape or form. No money that Hunter ever took in from a foreign source was used to Joe's benefit, nor was Hunter Biden ever associating Joe with the business of his foreign businesses. None of that, like none of it, seriously, none of it in that particular statement. Instead, they're just gonna play victim. In fact, here is Lowell is saying their big concern now is that Trump forces could influence the invest. How could Trump forces influence the investigation?

0 (19m 46s):
It's Joe Bidens DOJ. How could that happen? And the answer is now they're afraid that they got caught with their hand in the cookie jar. So maybe fairness might look like that a little bit.

14 (19m 56s):
When you say force, who are you referencing?

15 (20m 0s):
Well, what I'm referencing is, and this is not a surprise or a secret, right? From the moment this arrangement and agreement has been announced and filed, you have every MAGA right wing fanatical person yelling and screaming and saying it's not right, and it's not fair. And it's not just you have the former president trying to use Hunter Biden as a way to excuse his own conduct. And at some point that could pierce the noise, could actually be so noisy that it get in the way of the facts and the law.

0 (20m 31s):
Well, wouldn't that be a tragedy? Wouldn't that be a tragedy if it turns out that the giant bubble that you've created with the help of Joe Bidens DOJ actually started to cave in. If somebody actually popped that bubble, what a tragedy that would be. Okay, we'll get in just one second to President Trump, who's responding to all of this First, first The Ben. Shapiro Show is supported by Grand Canyon University, an affordable, private Christian university with a vibrant campus in beautiful Phoenix, Arizona that is ranked top 20 in the country. According to niche.com, G C U is a missional Christ-centered university, striving to foster a culture of community giving an impact. G C's goal is to help you develop into a servant leader who makes a difference through finding your purpose in fulfilling God's plan. With 330 academic programs and over 270 online, as of June, 2023, G C U integrates the free market system with a welcoming Christian worldview into your bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree Find your purpose at Grand Canyon University private Christian affordable.

0 (21m 20s):
Visit gcu.edu today. Okay, so President Trump has now responded to the picking of David Weiss. He put out a very weird statement, actually. He said David Weiss was picked by the two Democrat senators from Delaware under blue slip. He would not have been picked by me, but I have a great idea. Why don't they use deranged Jack Smith? He then continued Weiss has been investigating Hunter for four years, giving him the sweetheart deal of all sweetheart deals. But a brilliant judge in Delaware saw through it all. Now I read the DOJ wants a new judge in jurisdiction, but so do I with far stronger reasons than Hunter and crooked Joe Maga. Well actually, Trump formerly nominated Weiss for a US attorney for the District of Delaware. And Weiss was sworn in while Trump was president of the United States.

0 (22m 2s):
So that's not like the best statement from Trump. But suffice it to say that he's obviously correct that Weiss is a stooge on behalf of the DOJ at this point. That all indicators point to that. And the fact that he's now basically escaped any sort of congressional scrutiny by being appointed special counsel is pretty obvious corruption. Well, meanwhile, president Trump's presidential run continues. He's facing down presumably some sort of indictment that is going to come down either this week or next week. According to the Wall Street Journal, Georgia has become ground zero for exhaustion over the legal drama surrounding Donald Trump and the G O P debate over whether to stick with him in 2024 Georgia. There are still signs that voters have tired of the 2020 election replays and of Trump himself.

0 (22m 43s):
That kind of Trump fatigue is pervasive in Georgia according to Republican strategist, which is a serious problem for him in a general election. Right now, the possibility of another indictment looming is pretty obvious. President Trump put out a statement over the weekend going after the Fulton County da Fannie Willis. He, he went after her pretty hard, obviously he suggested that she is corrupt. He suggested that she is driven by politics. of course she, she is, she's a partisan Democrat. But you know, as these cases stack up, it is going to provide a serious challenge to his ability to actively run a campaign. According to breitbart.com, Fannie Willis is planning to bring multiple witnesses before a grand jury next week as part of her investigation into President Trump.

0 (23m 26s):
Trump wrote, I hear that racist, Fulton County District Attorney Phony Fanny Fanny Willis, who weak presides of one of the deadliest communities in the United States with thousands of murders, violent criminals and gang members roaming the streets while going on, tried free and are treated with kid gloves, is using a potential indictment of me and other instant people as a campaign and con and fundraising con job, all based on a perfect phone call as president, challenging election fraud. My duty and right, this would be Trump's fourth indictment in the past five months. And of course it would bleed into the presidential election. Trump was asked whether he'd be taking a plea deal in Georgia and correctly. He said, no way man. Not a thing that's going to happen.

16 (24m 1s):
Is there any chance you take a plea deal in Georgia deals? We did nothing wrong. We don't ever take a plea deal. Yes sir. Yes sir. We don't take plea deals. It's a wise guy question. Are you gonna change it? We ask a wise guy, are you, we don't take plea deals because I did nothing wrong. It's called election interference. You know what that is? 'cause ins are brought out by Biden who can't even put two sentences together. This is Joe Biden because he can't win the election by himself. He can't win the election based on votes. So what they did is they got the Attorney General to do it, and then you see how stupid they acted yesterday with the appointment of the special counsel.

0 (24m 39s):
Okay? So, and that of course is gonna be Trump's line all the way through the election. The question is whether that is going to be a winning message in a general election. That's something that Republican voters are gonna have to decide. I was talking with some friends over the weekend and we are all agreeing that the reason that Republicans, many of them love, love, love Trump, is because of course he was a hand grenade that was thrown into the sort of dead of vipers that is American politics. But the question is, what happens if that hand grenade becomes a dud or what happens if it starts to blow up in your hand? That's something republicans are gonna have to decide. So they think that Trump is still more of a tool against the left, that he's capable of victory in a general election, or is he a hand grenade that is going to blow up in their hand right now, the polls suggests that Republicans are very much on board with the idea that Trump is still the best guy to nominate the real clear politics.

0 (25m 23s):
Polling average has Trump ri riding very high at 54% and has Ron DeSantis at 15% and has ve Ramez Swami at six, pence at five, Haley at three. Everyone below that. Now, the polling on Ramez Swami is very weird. And as I say, full disclosure, I'm, I'm friendly with Vivic, of course, I'm friendly with many of these candidates, is the truth. But Vivek's polling is super weird because all of the online polls have him at seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, and all of the phone polls have him at two, which, which suggests that these, these may not be the most reliable polling statistics for vague because he's the only one who you're seeing picking up support right now other than Trump. Trump is actually on a bit of a high right now in terms of his polling numbers.

0 (26m 2s):
DeSantis has declined in the real clear politics polling average from about 25% in April all the way down to about 15% today. Vive in the real clear politics, polling average has picked up about three points, but it's really Trump who soared during that same period. Trump went from about 45% in, in the beginning of April to 54% today. Well, that dynamic was clearly on display in Iowa over the weekend. It was the Iowa State Fair, which this giant huge fair that happens every four years in Iowa, I believe it happens every year in Iowa, but it really, you know, breaks into the open during primary season because everybody goes there hoping to win votes in the Iowa caucuses. Right now, the polling in Iowa is significantly narrower than the polling nationally.

0 (26m 45s):
The polling in Iowa shows that Donald Trump is still for sure in the lead, but his lead over over DeSantis is significantly smaller. The last New York Times poll had Trump at 44 and DeSantis at 20, which of course is still a big gap. It's a 24 point gap, but that 24 point gap is, is not a 40 point gap. So that is a, a fairly significant difference. Well, DeSantis showed up and, and did an interview with Iowa's Governor, Kim Reynolds, who also showed up at the Iowa State Fair and say, here's what DeSantis had to say.

17 (27m 17s):
I believe if you have an opportunity to do good things for your community or your country, that you have a, that you have a responsibility to do that and to get that done. And so that's really, I think, you know, influenced me all the way up to the present in terms of what I'm looking to do. Like with running for president, I'm not running to be somebody, I'm running to do things on behalf of the country and for the American people.

0 (27m 41s):
Okay, so yeah, obviously that's, that's a nice line. But the big problem for DeSantis is that in terms of who is a more exciting candidate, who's the one who's going to suck all the air outta the room, there's no question that Trump is a much more exciting candidate. According to the Washington Post, the crowd that had crane to watch Governor DeSantis flipped pork chops with Iowa's Governor suddenly looked toward the sky. Donald tr Trump's plane was arriving. They clapped and cheered. We loved Trump. Some of them had chanted earlier when Trump got to the pork tent midday with DeSantis camp far away, resting in the shade. He didn't partake in the actual grilling. He brought an entourage of supportive lawmakers from DeSantis home state. They posed for selfies and passed out MAGA hats to a crowd that c clogged the Faires Grand Concourse. Trump was gone before 2:00 PM so that could actually, that that kind of behavior could theoretically harm Trump in an Iowa caucus.

0 (28m 23s):
Remember, he didn't win the Iowa caucuses the first time around. It was actually Ted Cruz who won the Iowa caucuses. Trump then did what he has become famous for doing. He denied that Ted Cruz had won the Iowa Caucus. He suggested that Ted Cruz had stolen it from Ben Carson, that Ben Carson had dropped out and, and, and that he had not formally dropped out, but Ted Cruz was telling people he had dropped out and that meant that he picked up Ben Carson's votes and they should have gone to Trump. And really Trump won Iowa and all of the rest. So Trump, you know, theoretically could lose Iowa again. But, you know, here's the footage of Trump's plane arriving. And again, there is the, the man does have a, a political magic to 'em in terms of real retail politics

18 (28m 56s):
Using it is you stop making them do gender pronoun classes. Like that's gotta stop.

0 (29m 3s):
See there is a, a Trump plane.

18 (29m 6s):
We pull down the garage,

0 (29m 7s):
Just be likable Ron,

19 (29m 10s):
We pull Trump, we love.

0 (29m 15s):
Now what, what did all of this mean? Well, it actually turned into a bit of a, a bit of a brawl, a bunch of Trump fans who are being extraordinarily rude, which again, not super shocking. We saw some of this behavior in the 2016 election as well. They started trying to drown out the interview between Kim Reynolds and Ron DeSantis. I I gotta say like for a lot of Republican voters, if they look at this, they have to wonder, is this the sort of behavior that actually is going to win in November of 2024? I, I, I don't know that, that it's going to appeal to any people who are going to be swing voters or suburban moms in 2024. Anyway, here was Kim Reynolds versus Trump fans.

20 (29m 50s):
So Ron's out there doing the 99 County tour. I think you may be ahead of me. Hey, you know what? Hey, you know what? We're in Iowa and in Iowa, were Iowa. Nice. So let's give everybody the opportunity to hear our candidates.

0 (30m 7s):
Okay? So, you know, the, the question as to whether that is going to be an appeal is, is an open one for his part. DeSantis went after Trump because Trump had been going after Reynolds. So he's campaigning well in Iowa. I mean actually the DeSantis team seems fairly confident that they're going to win Iowa. The truth is that in the Republican primaries, DeSantis doesn't just need to win Iowa, he needs to win Iowa and New Hampshire. He needs to win both of those. If he loses New Hampshire after winning Iowa, then Trump is probably going to win in South Carolina. He really needs to start consolidating the field very, very early in this race. But he's doing the hard on the ground work, the slogging work that is necessary. Here's DeSantis going after Trump for attacking Reynolds

21 (30m 44s):
Governor. You were just with, Hey guys, Governor Reynolds, all the Republicans here are joining Governor Reynolds except for the former president. Is that a missed opportunity for him?

17 (30m 52s):
I think that Donald Trump's attacks on Kim Reynolds are totally out of bounds. I couldn't disagree with it anymore. And she's done really nothing but do a great job. She's never done anything to him, but that's just how he operates to attack one of the best governors in the country.

0 (31m 11s):
I mean, obviously DeSantis is right about all of this, but this is really one of the questions. You know, again, to go back to the hand grenade analogy, the the question is, is the hand grenade effective or is the hand grenade not effective? You know, if the idea was that Trump was gonna come in and he was gonna wreck the the ways that thing he was gonna wreck the status quo, the question is what does that mean wreck the status quo in terms of actual policy? Because the truth is that in terms of upending democratic policy, DeSantis has done a hell of a lot more in the state of Florida than Trump did as president of the United States. But if what we mean is that Trump ticks off all the people we like to watch ticked off, there's no one better in politics probably in history than Trump at that. The question is whether that actually adds up to a policy win. So Republican voters are gonna have to decide kind of what they want here.

0 (31m 53s):
Do they want the best shot at winning independence? Do they want the best shot at winning nationally? Do they want the best shot at winning in in places like Georgia and Wisconsin and in Arizona? Or do they want the guy who's gonna piss off the left the most? Because if they want the guy who's gonna piss off the left the most, you're never gonna do better than Trump. Trump ticks off the left better than literally anyone in the history of humanity. Okay, in just one second, we'll get to the latest on the economy because again, Joe Biden remains an incredibly weak candidate. And I focus on that because it's important to recognize that if Republicans lose in 2024, that is Republican's own fault. Okay? I, I think it was Republican fault they lost in 2020. They're running against a doddering old fool who could not leave his basement and whose entire party was endorsing mass rioting in the streets as well as a giant national covid lockdown.

0 (32m 33s):
And somehow Republicans found a way to lose, and you can blame whoever you want for that. But the fact is that Republicans should have run away with that election. They didn't. So if they blow 2024, I'm not sure who you blame, then they blew 2018, they blew 2020, they blew 2022. If they blow 2024 at some point, can somebody be held responsible for blowing all of that? Or is it just gonna be pointing the finger again? We get to more on this in just one second. First, if you're like most Americans, you might be struggling to make ends meet. By the time you pay the bill, fill up your car and grocery shop, there's almost nothing left. Everything is now more expensive. Most of you're paying these bills with a credit card while consumer debt rows over $1 trillion in the last year. It's the biggest increase in 20 years. If you're a homeowner, there is a way out.

American Financing (33m 10s):
You should call my friends over to American Financing. They'll put together a plan to pay off that high interest credit card debt and create meaningful savings for you every month. They're saving people up to a thousand dollars a month and closing in as fast as 10 days. Don't wait. Get yourself into a better position. Call our salary based mortgage consultants today. See how much you can save 25 years of experience. 7,000 glowing Google reviews speak volumes about their ability to save homeowners money. It costs nothing To get started. If you start today, you could delay two mortgage payments giving you a greater savings upfront. Call American Financing today at (866) 721-3300. That's 8 6 6 7 2 1 3300 or visit American Financing dot net as American Financing dot net. If you're falling behind on those credit card payments, you need to find a way out. American Financing can help you find that way out. They're saving people up to a thousand dollars a month of clothing as fast as 10 days. Don't wait. Get yourself in better position. Give 'em a call. 8 6 6 7 2 1 3300.

Jeremy's Razors (34m 1s):
Also, if you're planning to send your kids off to college this year, you know that they're going to try to brainwash your kids. Well, you don't need your kids brainwashed. In fact, you'll need them regular washed. And this is why you need Jeremy's Razors. 'cause Jeremy's Razors. Well, not only do we now do the Razors, but they will also give you the magnificent shampoo, the body wash. They'll give you the hand soap, give you everything you need, paraben free sulfate free woke free made right here in the United States, and get him a precision five razor with welded steel blades and a flip back trier that'll groom his face, not his worldview. Help your son escape academia's, leftist indoctrination by more than just a close shave. Go to jeremy's Razors dot com for major deals and give Jeremy's back to college.

0 (34m 40s):
Bundles a full ride today. Meanwhile, the death toll continues to mount over in Maui and the president of the United States is back at Rehoboth Beach again. So he just went on a 14 day beach vacation and he came back for like four days and now he went back to the beach because he's no longer with us. He's no longer sentt. And he was asked apparently about the rising deel in Hawaii while he was on the beach and he said, no comment. And then he headed home. So slow clap for a very, very caring, deeply compassionate president of the United States. Meanwhile, we now have more stats about how much families are paying than they did two years ago. According to C N N business of all places, the typical American household spent 709 more dollars in July than they did two years ago to buy the same exact goods and services according to Moody's, that is a massive increase, massive increase that is $700 a month for the same goods and services.

0 (35m 29s):
You extend that over the course of the year and you're taking $8,400 that you're spending more this year than you were two years ago. Those are huge numbers because remember whenever Joe Biden says, well, you know, the inflation rate is is coming down every month. No, no, no, no. The increase in inflation is coming down every month except for the last month when it didn't, but it was coming down every month. But that just means that you're adding inflation on top of inflation. It's like saying that you spent a thousand dollars last month on your credit card and this month you spent $900. So you brought it down by a hundred dollars. I mean, that's true, but you also added $900 to your debt, which is what Joe Biden has been doing with regard to inflation. Mark Andy, the chief economist at Moody's said, high inflation over the past two plus years has done a lot of economic damage. Most of that increase in household spending is driven by housing costs, which have surged.

0 (36m 12s):
He added that families are also spending more at the grocery store on buying, maintaining, and ensuring vehicles. And on recreational services like cable paychecks have not grown by nearly as much as the cost of living. Okay, this is why I keep saying that Gravity is going to drag the economy back down. The Wall Street Journal has an entire piece on America's credit writing. According to Spencer Jacob writing for the Wall Street Journal, investors have historically paid a steep penalty to hunker down in super safe short-term government securities. For example, a hundred bucks invested in three month treasury bills in 1928 grew to only 2,141 bucks By the end of last year, while it became 46 grand invested in medium grade corporate bonds and whopping 624 grand if invested in stocks.

0 (36m 52s):
According to data from N Y U Finance Professor Asf de Deon, especially in the years following the financial crisis, anything short term and safe paid next to nothing. But the Federal Reserves fight against inflation has amplified the risk of an unthinkable fiscal crisis made possible by decades of Washington dysfunction. So that means that people are actually spending a bunch of money to get into short-term government securities, which pays you almost nothing. That's how freaked out people are. Cash might be king, although they were called certificates of confiscation in the inflationary 1970s. Longer term treasuries have been the go-to asset in times of crisis. The 10 years no yield is literally the risk-free rate use to value all others securities. But the government's pile of debt has now swelled following the war on terror, the global financial crisis and the Covid 19 pandemic low interest rates and fed bond buying masks.

0 (37m 36s):
The strain interest costs were recently no higher than in the early 1990s, but the Treasury barely sees the opportunity to lock in those rock bottom rates by issuing more long-term notes and bonds. And now it is too late long-term budget forecast. Say the US debt held by the public will surpass at G D P. This fiscal year interest on the debt will equal three quarters of discretionary, non-defense spending. By 2031. It will be as large. That's right. Interest on our national debt will be the same as all discretionary non-defense spending in the American budget by 2031. So we are in serious trouble. Actually, that forecast is probably too optimistic. The swelling, the swelling pile of debt means minor changes in assumptions that now have huge consequences.

0 (38m 18s):
About three quarters of treasuries must be rolled over within five years. Compound interest has a quickly, has a way of quickly making a bad situation worse. So what you're watching basically is that America's debt problem is snowballing and it's gonna get worse and worse and worse. And Joe Biden has exacerbated that problem. So what exactly do Democrats have to rely upon here? Well, they can't rely on their good governance. So what they're gonna rely on is trying to scare the American people into believing that democracy itself is about to collapse. This is what Kamala Harris is saying. This is why January 6th is at the center of everything that Democrats do. Here's Kamala Harris over the weekend World's most untalented politician making her case that democracy is at stake. of course,

22 (38m 55s):
What is it that you have on your mind when you wake up every morning?

23 (38m 59s):
Our democracy,

0 (39m 1s):
Oh, gimme a break,

23 (39m 3s):
Rev. I think everything is at stake right now when a democracy is intact. Yeah, it strengthens the people. It protects and fights for fundamental freedoms, individual rights. It's a, it's a fight for order against chaos. It strengthens, on the other hand, she's nails democracy incredibly fragile. It will only be as strong as our willingness to fight for it.

0 (39m 34s):
Man, when you pile on truisms that way, man, that is some bad politicking there from Kamala Harris. She's truly awful of this. Like truly, truly offload this. But she also does declare herself a role model. So that's exciting. A role model to dumb people everywhere. Here's Kamala Harris.

23 (39m 49s):
But the thing about being a role model, people watch what you do to see if it lines up with what you say.

0 (39m 56s):
What she does is nothing. It's nothing. She does nothing for a living. But in the end is all they have, they're gonna try and scare Americans about the Republican party. And the truth is, so far it's worked when Republicans can say that it hasn't, but it absolutely has. Since 2016 when Donald Trump was Elected, ever since then, the case Democrats have made is the crazy has to stop. And then they point at a bunch of Republican candidates ranging commercial walker in Georgia to Blake Masters in Arizona, to Doug Masano in Pennsylvania. And voters go, Hmm. And they listen to it and it turns out that Republicans should stop banging their head against a brick wall. Perhaps the best way to run against somebody supremely unpalatable like Joe Biden, supremely irritating like Kamala Harris is to run somebody who's actually somewhat palatable.

0 (40m 47s):
Because the truth is, if Republicans can't get excited to vote against Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, I don't know what business Republicans have getting into a a voting booth. I mean, just because Joe Biden is an incredibly boring elderly fellow, does not mean you shouldn't be excited to vote against him and get him out of office. But I suppose that if, if all of politics just becomes a battle of personality, then we are in a race to the bottom from here until the end of time, probably so, you know, dark thoughts here on a Monday. But the reality is that Democrats are incredibly beatable and if Joe Biden and Kamala Harris cannot be beat, I un I honest to God, don't understand what Republicans are doing for a living. I remember a couple of years ago I spoke at a House Republican summit, this is before 2022, and I said to them, if you guys don't take back the house, every one of you should be fired because it's a target rich environment.

0 (41m 35s):
This is a target rich environment. If Republicans cannot actually achieve victory against Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, I don't know what they do for a living or why we should continue to support them in any way, shape or form. I'm sorry, but blaming everybody else for losing is not going to cut it already time for some things I like and then some things that I hate. So last week I suggested the Ka Lake would be a bad candidate for Senate in Arizona. And I hold by that because she lost to a wet rag in Katie Hobbs. However, she did have herself a nice moment in Iowa over the weekend. She was asked about whether there are in fact two genders. She was milking a cow at the time and here was her response,

24 (42m 10s):
Which one of you's from the New York Times? You know, there's only two genders, right? I just take pictures. There's only two genders and they know that in Iowa, I challenge the New York Times reporter and the Washington Post Reporter to try to milk a cow and then try to milk a bowl and see how that goes.

0 (42m 32s):
Okay? I laughed. Okay. Other things that I like. So there is a song that has gone completely viral by a Virginia country singer named Oliver Anthony, who's a former factory worker who's apparently really, really done on his luck. And he was asked to play a song in sort of a local event. And the song that he played is one that he calls Richmond North of Richmond, which of course is a reference to the people who occupy Washington DC And this then has this thing has gone unbelievably viral. I mean millions and millions of views. Here's what it sounds like.

25 (43m 1s):
I've been selling my soul working all day over time, Howard for bull pain. So I can sit out here and waste my life away, drag back home and drown my troubles away. It's a damn shame what the world's gotten to for people like me. People like you wish I could just wake up and it not be true, but it's, oh, it's living in the new world with Lord knows it all.

25 (43m 44s):
Wanna have total control. Wanna know what you think, wanna know what you do and they don't think you know, but know that you do ain't s a,

0 (44m 6s):
Okay? So this song obviously has hit a nerve with people because it is, I think, the cry of a lot of people in the United States who are just trying to work a job and make their way in life and feel like there are too many people who have their hand in their pocket, particularly elites in the federal government who believe that their money should go to other people. One of some of the lyrics in the song are, Lord, we got folks in the street and got nothing to eat. And the obese milking welfare, well God, if you're five three and you're 300 pounds, taxes ought not pay for your bag of fudge rounds. Fair enough, fair enough. So he posted a video explaining, he said things were not good for a lot of people in some respects. I was one of those people. I'd wasted a lot of nights getting high and getting drunk. I'd sort of gotten to a point in my life where even things I did care care about didn't mean anything to me anymore.

0 (44m 47s):
This isn't a Dr. Phillips. So, but I found an outlet in this music and I started uploading a couple of songs. He said, the universal thing I see is no matter how much effort the working class puts into whatever it is they're doing, they can't quite get ahead because the dollar's not worth enough. They're being overtaxed. I wanna be a voice for those people. And not just them, but humans in general. As long as you're above the dirt, you got a fighting chance. So this thing has, again, gone incredibly viral. He says that he is not a right winger. He says that this is pretty much dead center. He's, because he's more isolationist in terms of foreign policy, but he talks about in the last part of the song, suicide rates, mental Health Depression. He says there's no reason why that sort of stuff should be happening in this country.

0 (45m 29s):
So John Rich, friends of The, Daily Wire, of course he's offered to produce Oliver's album and the video's getting all sorts of traction obviously, and, and it should, this is a, this is a talented guy. Okay, time for a quick thing that I hate. Alrighty. So I don't know why Disney keeps deploying Rachel Ziegler to say things about Snow White that are likely to alienate pretty much anybody who would ever wanna watch this movie. So they're making a live version of, of Snow White, the live action version of Snow White, which is really stupid since the original is of course a film classic Rachel Ziegler, who is playing snow diversity because we, we can't do Snow White anymore because obviously that'd be racist, right?

0 (46m 15s):
Tiana must remain a black princess forever. But Snow White cannot be a white princess, even if her literal name is Snow White because she has skin as white as snow. That is literally the line in the movie. I mean, I I'm sorry, I I didn't make it up. That's just what the fairytale is. It, it's, it's not called, you know, any other color. It's called Snow White. That's literally what it's called. In any case, Rachel Ziegler also feels the necessity. Apparently. He just crap on the myth and crap on the original movie. So, over the weekend here, she was explaining that the Prince in Snow White is actually the bad guy.

28 (46m 47s):
I mean, you know, the original cartoon came out in 1937 and very evidently so there's a big focus on her love story with a guy who literally stalks her. Yeah. Weird, weird. Super weird. So we didn't do that this time. So no. So no Prince or a different kind of prince. We have a different approach to what I'm sure a lot of people will assume is a love story, just because like we cast a guy in the movie Andrew Burn. Great dude. Yeah. It's, it's one of those things that I think everyone's gonna have their assumptions about what it's actually going to be, but it's really not about the love story at all, which is really, really wonderful.

0 (47m 24s):
It is so wonderful. Love is super bad guys. It's super bad. And The Prince is a creepy stalker. Did you know that? You probably didn't. 'cause if you watch the movie, you'll remember Snow White literally standing above a well and singing a song where she says that she wishes for the one I love to find me today. That's literally the lyric. You may remember it from the original movie, but apparently the Prince then responding to that by finishing her song, which is what happens, that means he's a creepy stalker. Now that's that, you know, it would've been better, honestly, it would've been better if he just left her to be dead that've been better. I mean, she, she was there. She's under, she's on the buyer, right? I mean, she's lying there. They've got the glass over her. She's pretty well preserved. He should've just left her alone and should've been dead. And, and everyone would've been happy, right? I mean, not so happy 'cause she would've been dead, but, but still, he's a creepy rape stalker.

0 (48m 8s):
And so it would've been better if she had bitten into the apple and died and then she never would've gotten kissed, and then she'd be dead. You know, who else would be dead? Also sleeping Beauty. She'd still be dead. In fact, there's like a bunch of princesses who would still be dead if we just, you know, abided by me too. Because it turns out that even when a woman is in love with a man, and even when they want to be together, the worst thing that could possibly happen is for him to kiss her while she's dead, to wake her up from being dead. That's the worst thing you could do in a myth. I mean, obviously the best thing, probably the Prince should have come along. You should have buried her. I mean, that, that, that would've been the best thing is to bury her alive quasi. That would've been, that would've been the best thing. But at least this isn't gonna be about love.

0 (48m 49s):
I mean, honest to God, what is Disney doing? What are they doing? They're so high on their own supply. It is insane. What do they think the market for this is? Where are the parents who are like, I'm desperate to bring my child to a movie that is not about Snow White, but isn't fact about a self-empowered woman that's like atomic blonde, but for children, let's do that. It's geniuses. All righty. Well, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be getting into the mailbag. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months for annual annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.