0 (0s):
Joe Biden travels to Alaska for nine 11 while signing a six billion giveaway to the Iranian mullahs. the Fifth Circuit smacks down the White House for interfering with free speech and Republicans seek new ways to lose the House of Representatives. I'm Ben Spiro This is The Ben Shapiro Show.

ExpressVPN (19s):
Today's show's sponsored by Express VPN. Thousands of my listeners have already secured their network data. Join them at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (25s):
So Joe Biden not a good president, not with it. And his plan on nine 11 was somewhat puzzling. So he was in Vietnam and he wanted to fly back to the United States instead of presumably delaying the, the rest of his nine 11 sort of tribute remarks, he decided to fly to Alaska from Vietnam because a shorter flight. And then he was going to do some sort of memorial for nine 11 in Alaska, which is really related to nine 11 in i I, I dunno, there's no relation. He was in Alaska. And so he decided that he was going to do an event in Alaska at this event in Alaska. He paid a tribute to John McCain, which again, I mean, that's, that's nice, but I don't know what that has to do with nine 11 per se.

0 (1m 7s):
And then he tried to do the bipartisanship routine, which is kind of amazing, considering that he's called half of Americans the kind of people who wish to overthrow the democracy. But sure, here was the president of the United States yesterday on a, a day of national unity for nine 11.

2 (1m 19s):
One thing I always admired about John was how he put duty to country first. And that's not hyperbole. He did above party, above politics, above his own person. The state reminds us we must never lose that sense of national unity. So let that be the common cause of our time. Let us honor September 11th by renewing our faith in one another. Let us remember who we are as a nation.

0 (1m 52s):
It's true. He did put duty first. Just so you know what Joe Biden was doing during the Vietnam war. He received five student draft deferments, first as an undergraduate at the University of Delaware, and then later as a law student at Syracuse University. And then after a medical exam in April 68, which would've made him eligible for the draft, he received a one y classification, which meant he could only be drafted in a national emergency y because he had childhood asthma. So just a, a quick contrast there between John McCain, who Joe Biden ran against. Remember Joe Biden was the vice presidential candidate for Barack Obama in 2008. I know it's now a decade and a half ago, but that's a thing that actually happened. And during that campaign, Joe Biden was not super nice to John McCain, but put aside all of the McCain. The the real thing here that that kinda sticks in the crawl is Joe Biden talking about national unity because he is not even remotely a unifier.

0 (2m 34s):
He's not somebody who cares about unity. He's somebody who pretends to care about unity. But the reality is that he has pursued the furthest left agenda of any president of my lifetime. And that actually includes Barack Obama. The stuff that he has attempted to do in restructuring, for example, student loans unilaterally from the executive Branch, the stuff that he has attempted to do in cramming down vaccines on 80 million people via osha, the insane levels of spending he has pursued post covid, the the insane amounts of money, money that he has poured down the rabbit hole of environmental causes while inflating the currency. Now, all this stuff is dramatic expansions in terms of the size and scope of government, and he's botched on foreign policy as well. Plus he's just an insult. I have to say Joe Biden is just an insulting person.

0 (3m 14s):
I mean, I know that a lot of people on the left who look at Donald Trump and they say that Donald Trump is an insulting person. He insults the intelligence and he's vulgar and he's rude and all this kind of stuff. Joe Biden is humiliating in a different sort of way. Joe Biden is humiliating because Joe Biden is a corrupt politician who lies regularly. He lies all the time when, when Joe Biden opens his mouth, the lies flow forth like bubbles from the mouth of Dam mosque, the knees. I mean, he's just, the, the only thing that comes out of his face hole is untruth. So yesterday during nine 11, he was talking about he just can't help himself. He starts talking about how he was at the Ground zero site the day after nine 11. That's clearly not true. Even Geor, George Ruby Bush didn't go to ground zero until nine 14.

0 (3m 56s):
So he is just making things up here because this is what he does. And he knows that the media are never gonna hold him accountable because when he was younger, they might have held him accountable when there were other Democrats he was running against. But now he's the president of the United States, and the rule is that if you are a Democrat who's the president of the United States, nothing you say will ever be used against you. It's the opposite of criminal justice. Anything you say can or will be used against you. Well, I mean for Joe Biden, once you're the president of the United States and you're Democrat, nothing you say will ever be used against you in any context. Here's Joe Biden just telling lies about nine 11

2 (4m 27s):
Ground zero in New York. And I remember standing there the next day and looking at the building, I felt like I was looking through the gates of hell. It looked so devastating because the way you could, where from where you could stand,

0 (4m 42s):
Oh, you mean it looked bad? Nine 11 and he knew that 'cause you, oh, well, as opposed to the rest of us who, you know, saw images of nine 11 and and all that, but, and this is who Joe Biden is. Now, all of this would just become a normal political Gio. All this would just be me, except for the fact that on the anniversary of nine 11 Joe Biden thought this would be an excellent time to sign a $6 billion check to the Iranian Mulls. Now the juxtaposition of nine 11, and that is pretty awkward, not because the Iranians participated in nine 11, not because Al-Qaeda was Shia, they're not, they're Sunni terror group. But because the overall thesis, which is that if you give money and resources and suker to Islamic terrorists, that eventually that is going to come back and bite you in pretty significant ways.

0 (5m 25s):
That is one of the big messages of nine 11, if not the biggest message of nine 11. And on that date, the president who handed Afghanistan back to Al-Qaeda, that's what he did. He handed it back to the Taliban and back to Al-Qaeda is now handing $6 billion to the leading provocateurs in the Middle East, the greatest terror Sponsors on the planet in Iran. That is what he did on the anniversary of nine 11. I mean, just for optical reasons, you would think that he had a brain in his head to think maybe I should wait a week. But no, he had to do it Now because Joe Biden wants a deal with the Iranians, a broader deal with the Iranians. Why? Well, so he can put it on his resume in the same way that he wanted to, to pull out of Afghanistan like a moron because he wanted it on his resume, not because he thought it would actually be good for the world, not because he actually had a plan. He didn't, but because he wanted to say that he was the guy who got it done.

0 (6m 8s):
Never put it above politicians, never put it below politicians for them to do things just out of Pure egotistic desire. They, they want it on their resume. And so they just do it. It's not because they have the best interest of the country at heart. That's clearly not the case here. Joe Biden does not have the best interest of the country at heart when he send a $6 billion check to people who have been responsible for the death of literally thousands of Americans in the Middle East. Remember, during the Iraq war, it was Iranian sponsored Shiite militias, there were killing American soldiers. And Joe Biden is signing those people $6 billion checks on the anniversary of nine 11 while paying tributes to the heroes of nine 11. It's just, it's beyond reason. We'll get to the details of that story in just one second.

Pure Talk (6m 46s):
First, is your cell phone running outta battery all the time? And this, this happens a lot, right as your cell phone ages the battery ages. And this means that you find yourself plugged into a wall, which defeats the purpose of having a cell phone in the first place. Well, why not get that thing replaced with a five G Samsung Galaxy from Pure Talk for free got a free five G Samsung Galaxy with two day battery life edge to edge display. Ultra strong Gorilla Glass when you sign up for Pure Talk's unlimited talk text in 15 gig data plan for just 35 bucks a month. Plus it comes with a mobile hotspot. If you're not using Pure Talk, you're simply paying too much. Get all the data you could ever need for half the price of the big carriers on America's most Dependable five G Network. Head on over to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Get your free super durable five G Samsung Galaxy when you switch on over to Pure Talk. Again, visit Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Make the switch to my cell phone company, Pure Talk, the official wireless partner of The Daily Wire. I take all of my business calls on Pure Talk because again, I value those calls. I don't want them dropped. They have a great network and you have all sorts of benefits when you go over to Pure Talk, including that free, super durable five G Samsung Galaxy when you switch on over to Pure Talk. So head on over to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro today.

2 (7m 48s):
Okay, so what is this deal that Joe Biden apparently signed yesterday? According to the Washington Post, the Biden administration has now issued a waiver for banks to transfer $6 billion in frozen Iranian oil funds without fear of US sanctions. A key step in securing the release of five American citizens detained in Iran. People familiar with the matter said as part of the arrangement, the administration will release five Iranian citizens detained in the United States.

0 (8m 11s):
And so just to make this clear, this is not even a straight up trade of Iranian citizens detained in the United States because we believe that they are involved in, say, terror activities for Americans who have been wrongly detained in Iran. It's not even a straight up trade, it's that plus $6 billion, I gotta say Joe Biden's record here is looking a lot like the, the GM of the New York Jets at this point. He, he, he's trading Brittany Griner for the Merchant of death, and now he's trading $6 billion and five Iranians. We are holding here for five American citizens. I I just have a question. What exactly would be the incentive for terrorist groups not to take American citizens hostage at this point? And you know that the, the sucker in the White House is gonna sign you over the bank if you do the, the central principle of don't negotiate with terrorists.

0 (8m 55s):
Obviously there's play around the edges, there's certain situations where negotiations are necessary, but one of the key elements here is you don't actually negotiate with terrorists to the tune of $6 billion plus five detainees in the United States for five people wrongfully detained in Iran. That's crazy. Talk Congress was notified of the move on Monday. It's likely to come as a relief to us prisoners, families and supporters say the Washington. Well, isn't that nice? I mean, listen, I want those people back as well. Also, the United States has national interests. Those national interests do not involve giving $6 billion to the world's leading terrorist Sponsors. My God, it's also expected to come under harsh criticism from Republicans in Congress opposed to any agreement that allows for the release of frozen Iranian funds money that's now being transferred from South Korea to Qatar and limited for the purchase of humanitarian goods like food or medicine.

0 (9m 40s):
Okay? That's the part that's lies. They're saying it's gonna be for humanitarian purposes. There's only one problem. The Iranians immediately said, no, no, no, no, you don't understand. We're gonna use it wherever we please. According to N B C news, Iranian, president Eber Raisi said his government will decide how we'll spend $6 billion in previously frozen funds due to being due to be released in a prisoner exchange. He said it'll be spent quote, wherever we need it. Oh, so you mean you're going to spend it to murder people because that's what you do. Because you'd rather that your country be impoverished and your people unhappy then that you actually stop with the terror crap and start building. That's what you would rather do if you are the, the evil regime in Tehran, in an exclusive interview in Tehran, Rasi suggested the Americans held in Iran would be coming home soon saying the US Iran Prisoner Exchange Show will be completed in due time that the American detainees were in very healthy condition.

0 (10m 26s):
Under the arrangement, Tehran will be granted access to the roughly $6 billion in Iranian oil revenues. US officials are lying and they're saying, oh, no, no, no, they're only gonna use it for food. Right? Because that's what they do. If you hand money to dictatorial regimes that hate your guts, probably they use it exactly where you're, if there's one thing you know about the Iranians, it's that we can trust them. They've never reneged on a deal ever. If for example, they say they're developing nuclear power for peaceful purposes, despite the fact that they're one of the great oil producing regions on planet earth, we probably have to believe them. That's probably the, they would never deceive say the I A E I. They would never ever do that sort of thing. I love that Rasi is just saying the quiet part out loud. He's just like, yeah, no, we're using it for whatever we want. That's how little the Iranians even respect Joe Biden. They're like, yeah, you give us the money and then you go lie to your people and you tell them that we'll use it for, for good purposes like food or something, and then I'm gonna just say publicly on American tv, I'm gonna use it however I want.

0 (11m 16s):
Screw you old man. I mean, that's, that's effectively what this is, right? Yi said, Iran would have authority over how the money would be spent. Quote, this money belongs to the Iranian people, the Iranian government, so the Islamic Republic of Iran will decide what to do with this money. So he was asked directly by Lester Holt if the money would be used for other purposes apart from humanitarian needs. And our AC said quote, I love this. Humanitarian means whatever the Iranian people needs. So this money will be budgeted for those needs and the needs of the Iranian people will be decided and determined by the Iranian government. Oh, that, that is like a classic right there. That is such an amazingly, I, I, I kind of love it because it's so blatant. That's like, you give me a credit card and you tell me I'm a I'm, I'm working for Daily Wire. You gimme your DailyWire credit card.

0 (11m 57s):
You tell me I need to go use it for Daily Wire resources, right? And what you mean is you want me to go down to the local, to the local Office Depot and pick up like some paper and ink and I'm like, oh, for Daily Wire resources, perfect. That credit card belongs to me. I'm going to use it for whatever resources, The, Daily, Wire deems necessary, and who deems it necessary will be me. And so I just go and put like a Lambo on the credit card. That's effectively what they're doing, except in Iran for the government, a Lambo is just a bunch of shoulder fired missiles that that's, that's what it is. The prisoner exchange calls for the release of five American citizens held in Iran in return for five Iranians under detention in the United States, and again, gives them $6 billion.

0 (12m 38s):
The five American prisoners were placed under house arrest August 10th as a first step in the agreement. The Biden administration waited until, of course, September 11th to inform that just the, the optical. This, this is what happens when you have a White House that legitimately does not care what the American people think and believe that the media will cover for them no matter what. They do crap like this on the anniversary of nine 11, assuming that everybody will just shrug and maybe they're right, maybe everything is so baked into the cake, into the polarized cake that nothing can outrage the American people at this point. I don't actually think that's an amazing bet. I think Joe Biden made that bet on Afghanistan and it sunk his approval ratings into the low, into the low forties, high thirties, and he's been there ever since. So I think this sort of stuff can damage Joe Biden.

0 (13m 20s):
I, I know that he thinks he's invulnerable because he's likely to run against Donald Trump for president. And there's some truth to that. That means a durable 45% of the American public will certainly vote for him, but 45 ain't 50. So he's playing a, a very risky game here, by the way, speaking of a White House that clearly does not care about American defense, according to Politico, president Joe Biden would veto a right wing defense funding bill that's slated to be considered on the house floor this week, according to his administration. What makes it right wing, what makes it right wing that the Republicans are saying, we don't want taxpayer dollars used to fund people's travel to other states to get abortions. 'cause last I checked, when I pay for a military budget, typically what I'm paying for is like the basic medical care of the people who are serving in the American military so they can go out and break things and kill people that American needs to break and kill in order to maintain its own security.

0 (14m 7s):
But that's what it's for. But the White House is like, no, no, no, unless you're gonna spend that money on abortion in the military, we're just not gonna sign it. We're just not gonna sign it. I'd rather underfund the military if it's not gonna pay for abortion is the White House's position here. The administration says, including divisive policy provisions within an appropriations bill also dramatically increases the threat of a continuing resolution, which would further damage America's national security. Again, all that was here is that house Republicans included provisions to block funding for the Pentagon's policy of allowing troops to travel for abortions as well as surgery and hormone treatments for trans military personnel. So the, the, the Republicans are like, we wanna increase the military budget, you know, to spend on military things, but here's what we're not paying for you to take your baby to another state to kill it and you to cut off your, those are the things we're not gonna pay for, right?

0 (14m 50s):
Here's a complete list of things we're not gonna pay for. And the White House is like, no, you will pay for people cutting off their, their balls. That is a thing you will pay for. Or there will be no restocking on the Blackhawks, which, which party cares about national security in this situation. I'm just wondering, you're clearly holding hostage America's a national security so you can cut the balls off dudes. That's what you're talking about right here, which is nuts. I'm sorry, by any moderate stretch of the imagination. That's crazy. And as far as the abortion policy, if your parent dies out of state and you go out of state to visit your, your grieving mother because your dad died, the military is not gonna pay for that. But if you go out of state to take your baby to a, to a, an abortion clinic and get it killed, then Joe Biden says, that must be paid for by the American taxpayer.

0 (15m 33s):
Now remember, for most of Joe Biden's career, he's a big backer of the so-called hide Amendment, which banned legislation that used taxpayer funding for abortion. He has decided that's no longer the case. Now you ought to pay for that abortion again, this isn't the person themselves paying for the, it's you paying for the abortion. It's me paying for the abortion. And the media, of course, play this as though it's the right word. Attending, attending tilt of the, of the spending bill the right word, tilt of the spending bill. So they apparently the bill is a non-starter with Senate Democrats. It's just, it, it's incredible. It's absolutely incredible. This is what they're holding up clearly an administration that cares deeply about American national security signing 6 billion. So yes, say yes, $6 billion to the Iranians, no money to the military, unless it's also going to pay for a woman to have a fake penis sewed to her.

0 (16m 19s):
Clear. Our priorities are absolutely clear here. Hey, in just one second, we'll get to the fact that again, Joe Biden is incredibly vulnerable and the offenses of him by his allies are growing weaker and weaker.

PreBorn! (16m 30s):
When we talk about abortion here and the fact that Democrats want to fund it, we should point out that abortion continues to rage across the United States by some numbers. It's actually elevated this year because there's so many people who are freaked out about the possibility they won't be able to abort their baby, that they're trying to actually do it right now. But there is a way that you can help prevent this, and that would be by giving to pre-born Pre Born's Network of clinics experiences over 200 miracles per day. Pre-born gives women with unplanned pregnancies, free ultrasounds, introducing them to the beautiful life, growing inside her womb. Once she hears the heartbeat, the chance of her baby's life doubles because of your generosity. Preborn can do all of this for just 28 bucks per ultrasound. All gifts are tax deductible and go entirely to saving babies. Someday you might meet a baby that you rescued, maybe they'll save a life the way that you have today. One thing is for sure, you're not gonna regret saving a life because life is indeed a miracle and you can do it for not a lot of money. All you have to do is donate by dialing pound two 50 and say, keyword baby, that's pound two five zero baby. Or go to preborn.com/ Ben. That's preborn.com/ Ben. You're not gonna do anything remotely is important today. Go to preborn.com/ Ben and give generously.

2 (17m 30s):
Okay? So given the fact that this administration is in fact a bleep show, and most of that bleep is, is is apparent in the foreign policy realm, domestic policy is bad enough, but you can spin domestic policy on a, on a foreign level, what American is in favor of sending giant checks to the Iranians.

0 (17m 45s):
What America and what, what American is in favor of putting American national security at risk. So some person with gender dysphoria can be shot up with testosterone. Like what, what exactly is the, is the balance there that Americans are in favor of? Well, the, the defenses of Biden are now coming fast and fierce. When you're defending, you're losing. This is something both parties should remember. By the way, the Republican party should remember this with Trump. If you spend the rest of the election cycle defending Trump, you're going to lose. because again, if everybody's talking about how bad your guy is and you just spend the entire time talking about how he's really not that bad, you're gonna lose. And for Democrats, same thing. If you spend the entire election cycle talking about how Joe Biden is not that bad, we all know he is. So here's the end of Navarro trying to do work on behalf of the Biden administration talking about how it, it's all, it's all fake.

0 (18m 30s):
It's all in your head. This is, this is one of my favorite approaches from the geniuses over at the view is stuff that you can clearly see happening in front of your eyes is not real because End Novar says, so

3 (18m 38s):
This administration has really gotten a ton of very difficult bipartisan legislation through in a divided Congress with a very difficult Senate makeup of 50 50 bipartisan infrastructure Bill, bipartisan Safe Communities Act first major gun legislation in decades, US Innovation and Competition Act, bipartisan Climate, healthcare and Tax Package, fiscal Responsibility Act. And the list is long. So what do they need to focus on? They need to focus on the undeniable Joe. Biden is old. And that's a narrative that's been created to cause panic in people. Yes. And then so what's the second part of that narrative? Joe Biden is old and Kamala Harris is unprepared.

0 (19m 21s):
So that's not a narrative. Joe Biden is old and Joe Biden is also terrible at his job. He's terrible at his job. It Meanwhile, they're trying to clear the field against any potential Democrat who might run against Joe Biden because again, he's intensely vulnerable. Here's the thing that, that if you were truly a rebel as for example, Alexander Ocasio-Cortez believes she is, if you're truly a rebel, then you would run at Joe Biden from his left, you would, okay, now Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez, she's 33 years old, I believe that she would be theoretically eligible for the presidency. The truth is that she could easily pick up the ball where Bernie Sanders left off and run against Joe Biden from his left, because he's really, really vulnerable, but none of them are doing it.

0 (20m 4s):
Why? Because the Democratic Party is in fact a vehicle for radical leftism. This is the difference between the right and the left in terms of their parties. Right? Wingers don't trust the Republican party because they don't believe it's a vehicle for their ideas. Democrats trust the Democratic Party because they do believe that it's a vehicle for their principles. That's why they're all standing shoulder to shoulder behind the old man Meanwhile. That old man is using the White House as a military weapon against social media. We'll get to that momentarily

Ruff Greens (20m 29s):
first. We have a great dog. His name is happy, he's incredibly cute. One of the best things about Happy is that he really allows my kids to just like get rough with him. My my seven year old son, he has extra energy and like jump around with the dog and the dog's jumping around with him. It's extremely cute. We wanna keep happy living a happy and healthy life, which is why we give him rough Greens every morning. Morning. The dog food you have been giving your dog is dead food. It doesn't have much nutritional value. Take a look at it. That brown food doesn't exactly scream at nutrition, but green food does, which is why you should try out Rough Greens. It boosts Happy's food back to life. It can do the same for your dog as well. You don't have to go out and buy new dog food, just sprinkle rough Greens on their food every single day. It contains all the necessary vitamins and minerals your dog is not getting from their regular dog food. Ruff Greens is the only supplement your dog will ask for by name. Rough Greens, rough get, it's a pun. Naturopathic Dr. Dennis Black, founder of Ruff Greens, he's so confident this product will improve your dog's health. He's offering my listeners a free Jumpstart trial bag. Head on over to Ruff Greens dot com slash Ben. Let Ruff Greens bring your dog's food back to life. That's R U F F Greens dot com slash Ben today. Rough Greens dot com slash Ben today or call 8 3 3 MY DOG 33. That's 8 3 3 MY DOG 33.

3 (21m 33s):
Okay, Meanwhile, the Biden administration, you know, for, for all to talk about what they're doing on the foreign front. On the domestic front, what the Biden administration has done with regard to social media is one of the most creepy and tyrannical things that I've seen in my lifetime. And it extends. The truth is, before Biden, right? The, the government's use of its powers to cudgel social media into doing what they want is utterly insane. This is something that the Fifth Court ex explicated over the weekend on Friday, they limited the scope of a district court ruling that restricted communications between government agencies and social media companies. But they found that several agencies likely violated the first Amendment. This should be like top of page news.

0 (22m 10s):
And in an era where the media actually cared about freedom of speech, which they clearly do not at this point, it would be top of the page news. And when, when, when Donald Trump was saying things like the president of the enemy, of the paper enemy, all we got was, this is an attack on the first Amendment. It's un-American. How can he say that they're not enemies of the people? Meanwhile, you have actual government agencies going to social media websites and telling them to shut down fully certain streams of information. And the media's like, because if the mainstream media agrees with a thing, it becomes truth. And if the mainstream media disagrees with a thing, it becomes falsehood and it would be good if that thing were suppressed. Well, here's the thing, making the argument that social media is a private entity and can make its own rules that carries only so far as the government is not pressuring the private entity into doing the thing.

0 (22m 58s):
Once you are a government agent, you can't do that thing. If the government puts a gun to your head and tells you to do a thing, you are now a government agent. That means that whatever you do is attributable to the governments of the government, goes to social media and they say to them, either you regulate the speech or we regulate you. Which is effectively what Democrats have been saying since about 2018. If they say that sort of thing, this turns social media companies into operations of the government. Once they're operations of the government, then the pressure that government brings to bear is in fact a violation of the fir the first Amendment, which is exactly what the fifth Circuit Court of Appeals says. According to C N B C. The ruling will make it easier for several federal agencies to communicate with social media companies. Still officials who remain subjected to the modified injunction, including those in the White House, must remain careful.

0 (23m 40s):
Their discussions with the platforms will not be construed as coercive. A three judge panel of the fifth Circuit Court of appeals concluded that the White House Surgeon General's office and F B I likely violated the first Amendment by coercing social media platforms into moderating posts on their sites. It also said that the C D C likely violated the first Amendment. The Appeals court decision says that some federal agencies won't be subjected to the injunction, but they did say, and it's a, it's a pretty amazing ruling. They did say that the pressure brought to bear on social media companies by the federal government is a violation of the first Amendment, which it clearly is. And that pressure is obviously continuing.

0 (24m 20s):
Here's the thing, once that genius outta battle, it can't be undone. So let's say that the C D C is not pressuring anymore, but the message is already out there that the pressure exists, the threat is already out there. If Al Capone threatened to burn down your bar because you wouldn't pay the protection money, and he did that a year ago, you're probably still gonna pay him the protection money even after a court says he really shouldn't do that. And that's effectively what's happening right now, according to the Washington Post threads is currently blocking searches on the topic of covid and vaccines. Instagram's text-based social platform threads, which is supposed to be the answer to Twitter, rolled out its new search function, but not even 24 hours later, the company was embroiled in controversy.

0 (25m 1s):
When users went to threads to search for content related to Covid and Long covid, they were met with a blank screen that showed no search results and a pop-up linking to the website of the C D C. You talk about government pressure, how about the government pressuring social media into shutting down actual social media posting and just linking directly to the government. And that's like Orwellian crap. Meta acknowledged a statement to the Washington Post that threads is intentionally blocking those search terms and said other terms are being blocked as well. The company didn't give a list, but those words include sex nude gore porn, okay? So far, I suppose. All right, and then coronavirus vaccines and vaccination, those are blocked now. You will be delegate, you'll be directed explicitly to government sources.

0 (25m 42s):
The search functionality temporarily doesn't provide results for keywords that may show potentially sensitive content. It's now potentially sensitive content because God forbid you should get the non-government side of the story since the government was so absolutely honest with us during the Covid regime. I mean, there are, they're being so honest with us now, now that you've got the White House promoting, masking again, amazing stuff here and, and the fact that that is not a national scandal demonstrates more than anything how corrupt the media are because again, the media you would imagine would be pro first Amendment, well, not so much. Okay, so you'd imagine that all of this would be wind in the sails for Republicans going into 2024. After all, this is terrible governance. This is tyrannical use of social media. The American people are not up for all of this.

0 (26m 22s):
So all Republicans have to do is be not stupid. Well, oops. So Republicans always have a way of, of doing dumb things. All the talk right now about how Kevin McCarthy is going to be basically deprived of his speakership. I'm just wondering what is the upside? I keep asking this. I've been asking this since there was the original rebellion against McCarthy. It's one thing to, to leverage McCarthy for more concessions to the conservative side of the aisle. That's fine. That's a strategy. But you have to be able to land the plane. You know what is not a strategy? What if we get rid of McCarthy and then we have no one to back him up? What if we just have a random speakership fight so that people can get on tv? Like this sort of stuff is deeply unhelpful. According to Politico, Kevin McCarthy is facing the greatest peril to his speakership since he clawed his way into the job eight months ago with multiple factions of his party feuding and looming revolt ahead during a battle to fund the government.

0 (27m 11s):
Ultra conservative members of the house, g o p, are talking in unsettled terms about turning on McCarthy if he does not take a hard line in negotiations with the Senate and the Biden administration. Now, lemme just point out here, Joe Biden in the Senate, all they have to do is say, we're willing to negotiate and then not negotiate in order to win this battle. They made a crucial tactical blunder during the last round of these negotiations. Joe Biden pre-committed beforehand to not negotiating that gave McCarthy room to say that he was the negotiator, and eventually Biden had to negotiate. The rule in these sorts of political brinkmanship situation is that the American public are pro. Whichever party says, they'll come to the table. And if you say you won't come to the table, they don't like you. So if you're already starting off with, we're not coming to the table, and the unless is something that you're certainly not going to get from the Democrats, well then the Democrats probably win that in the battle of public opinion.

0 (27m 58s):
McCarthy, according to Politico, is a political survivor. Even his critics cannot deny his skilled nature as an accommodator. His persistence in winning over even his most dogged critics, but interviews with more than two dozen g o p members and AIDS reveal it would take only a few rogue lawmakers, hell bends on his downfall to risk McCarthy's fate in an entirely new way, sending their party spiraling into a new period of chaos. Even if those defectors failed to actually eject McCarthy, some of the speaker's confidence privately concede, there may be no way to recover. According to Bob Good, who's a vocal McCarthy detractor. He says, the speaker faces two choices. He stares down the Senate, stares down the White House, forces them to cave, and as a transformational historic speaker, or he can choose to make a deal with Democrats. Now, let me just be clear about this. There is no situation, which a deal is not cut with Democrats.

0 (28m 40s):
You know, wanna know why? Because the President is a Democrat. So is the Senate. What is amazing to me is I'm more fiscally conservative than virtually everyone in Congress. I also happen to live in this world called reality, where you don't get to unilaterally dictate the terms of engagement when the other side holds most of the cards. The President has veto power. The president has the entire media on his side, and you can fight this battle. You can say, well, you know, the President really should cave on this and you should really cave on this, and you might be able to price certain concessions away from Biden. They were able to do this last time. They got some small concessions from him. But if you're talking about effectuating large scale change with a Democrat president and a Democrat senate, good luck to you. By the way.

0 (29m 20s):
You know what would've been really helpful here is winning. That would've been super helpful. If you actually want to effectuate large scale change, you know, it'd be great controlling the house of Representatives guys, that'd be awesome. So why don't we focus on running good candidates in swing districts? Hell, why don't we focus on nominating the most electable, Republican for president who isn't gonna drive out democratic turnout. That might be a way to actually effectuate large scale change. Or is the idea here that you just yell at your leadership class and, and, and if you yell at them long enough, then magic happens. I, I don't know, honestly, it's, it's like one of these bizarre tweets where the logic goes something like step one, yell at your leadership, step two, dot, dot dot step three, fiscal conservatism like the dot, dot.is the whole thing, guys.

0 (30m 4s):
You need to figure out exactly what your strategy and your play here is. Again, I'm not saying you can't leverage McCarthy into being more conservative. I'm fine with that. I think that's good. I think pressure from his right is a good thing. The point I'm making is that if you start off with a series of demands that are utterly unrealistic, and, and if there are people in the conservative ecosystem, in the conservative media ecosystem who suggest that government shutdowns are gonna be a way toward political victory here with a democratic senate and a Democratic president, when you know a deal is gonna get signed, I don't understand what exactly the upside is. What Republican all Republicans need to provide right now is a sense of sobriety is a sense that they know what they're doing. So all I'm asking for as always, is a plan. That's it. Give me a plan. Like I, I don't like any Republican strategy.

0 (30m 46s):
That is not a strategy at all. It's an impulse. If the, if the, if the impulse is yell at McCarthy until good things happen. That's not a strategy and it is not a plan. If the impulse is nominate whomever and run them against Biden without any plan for victory, what's the plan? If the plan is shout that the last election cycle was stolen, and then have no plans to actually reverse that or explain even how you would attempt to do so. That's not a plan, that's an impulse. Impulses do not make for political victory. You know what, Democrats have continuously plans. It's what they do professionally. So for example, according to Politico, in the past nine days, state and federal judges threw out two congressional maps and helped Democrats avoid a worst case scenario in Ohio, kicking off an unusually busy redistricting calendar heading into the election year, all told a dozen or more seats across at least six states could be redrawn, increasing the likelihood Democrats could chip away the five seat g o p house majority through three redistricting alone.

0 (31m 35s):
Democrats could pick up an extra seat, including in Florida, Alabama, and Louisiana. These are deep red states, perhaps several more in New York, Republicans could still pick up as many as four seats in North Carolina, but the recent rulings put Democrats in a position to offset some of those losses and then some. So again, they're finding judges who are overthrowing these districts that are drawn, and then they're basically creating democratic districts. That is what they're doing right now. That is a plan when Republicans by the way, play the game. They can win. This is the other thing is this notion out there that Republicans can't play the game because the game is rigged. Okay? When it comes to ballot harvesting, yes, Republicans can play that game and they can win. That's what happened in Florida during the last election cycle. Yes, the judiciary was rigged against Republicans, and then Republicans created the Federalist Society and spent 30 years building up an entire Bench of judicial nominees and then took control of the Supreme Court.

0 (32m 23s):
So yes, you can do this But, it requires actual plans. I understand that the easiest thing in politics is to think for today and maybe for tomorrow, but never for 10 years from now. That's not going to achieve it. And, and here's the big question. What exactly do you expect McCarthy to do? McCarthy's actually giving us what we want. I say us to conservatives, not in terms of spending, which he's not capable of doing and no one's capable of doing. And by the way, I I do find it ironic that many of the same people who are shouting about how McCarthy is not sufficiently conservative on spending, are talking about the wonders of, of, for example, president Trump who says, we should not restructure Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid, which are the biggest spending programs in American life. Bar none. But put that aside. McCarthy is in fact moving toward an impeachment inquiry.

0 (33m 3s):
If that's something you care about, McCarthy's doing it according to Fox News, Kevin McCarthy will tell House Republicans today, beginning an impeachment inquiry against Biden is the logical next step. The house, g o p conference plans to hold the meeting on Thursday morning for key committee chairs to lay out their latest findings and the status of the investigations into the Biden Family House Judiciary Committee Chairman, representative Jim Jordan of Ohio and House Oversight Committee chairman, representative James Comer of Kentucky are expected to lead the meeting at the meeting. McCarthy is expected to say an impeachment inquiry is the logical next step for the Republican majority. So that will obviously launch this into higher gear. 218 lawmakers would need to support an impeachment inquiry against Biden. It's not certain that actually the House Republicans have the votes to do it.

0 (33m 43s):
There are several G O P lawmakers, including Ken Buck and Don Bacon of Nebraska have voiced skepticism about impeachment, which is interesting because Buck is a fiscal conservative who's also pushing McCarthy from the right in terms of spending. So it's kind, it's kind of some weird bad fellows here. But McCarthy is very pliable to his own membership. The problem is, if you don't give many options, he's got no options. So how about this, how about focus on, you know, the measures that are likely to lead to electoral victories. You can actually effectuate change the, there's been the, ever since I've been following Republican and conservative and, and demo politics at all, which is like 14, 13 years old, I have noticed an an extraordinary tendency among those in the activist space to simply say over and over and over that they wish a thing to be.

0 (34m 27s):
And then if the politicians don't make the thing happen, then the politicians have failed. What if the thing that you are wishing for is not possible under the current circumstances, but might be possible with a little bit of actual forethought? Okay, in just one second, we are going to get to crime problems spinning out of control in Washington dc Again, democratic governance is incredibly vulnerable right now. The stuff they have promulgated is really, really bad.

ZipRecruiter (34m 50s):
First, gotta talk about Brian. Brian is a video editor over here. He is the meme Lord over here. He's the guy that you see whenever you see our videos on YouTube and they've got all the memes that, that is largely Brian who's doing, he's a post editor, but I only know Brian from making me play Minecraft and I've been waiting for this day. This is the day, Brian, it's time for you to be ZipRecruiter because the reality is making me play Minecraft. Sure, it might be entertaining for some of you and sure our audience might like it, but there is very little else on this earth. I hate more than being forced to play Minecraft for like an hour and a half because I will not get those hours of my life back and on my death bed. I'll think back to those videos of me playing Minecraft on YouTube and say, my God. So Brian ZipRecruiter is the best way to use AI to help you find people to replace the people you want to replace. ZipRecruiter AI identifies candidates who are best suited for all kinds of roles right now. You can try it for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. If you want the most qualified candidates, ZipRecruiter will use it's powerful AI to find and send you people whose skills and experience match your job. Then ZipRecruiter lets you easily invite them to apply to encourage them to apply sooner. In fact, over 3.8 million businesses have headed on over to ZipRecruiter for their hiring needs. Get the leading edge on hiring with ZipRecruiter four or five employers who post on ZipRecruiter. Get a quality candidate within day one C for yourself. Head over to ZipRecruiter for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. That's ZipRecruiter dot com slash D A I L Y W I R e. ZipRecruiter is the smartest way to hire.

Jeremy's Razors (36m 9s):
Also, a few months ago, there's a certain chocolate company sold themselves out to the woke. They tried it out. A dude who says he's a lady to be the spokes lady on International Women's Day. It was ridiculous. That's why my good friend Jeremy Boring decided to start producing Jeremy's chocolate. The campaign was a huge success. We sold out in a matter of days, then we got more in stock and then those sold out too. The best way to strike back at these leftist regimes is through the free market. Halloween is quickly approaching. We are bringing back our chocolate so you don't have to settle for ideologically inferior chocolate. It's time to stock up on good unwoke kosher chocolate. It's kosher. So head on over to jeremy's chocolate.com. Order today, check this out. This is the she her bar from Jeremy's chocolate. And it goes without saying. The she, her bar is nut knotless. So yes, that is the thing. So on Halloween, give this out to the kid. They're not gonna understand what's going on, but their parents are gonna laugh super hard. So go check it out right now. Jeremy's chocolate.com.

3 (37m 1s):
Okay. Meanwhile crime remains absolutely outta control in Washington DC I know we were supposed to pretend that crime was going to end after the defund the police movement. Remember, it's gonna be kumbaya. I mean, Washington DC actually wrote Black Lives Matter in giant letters on the street. And if that won't solve crime, I frankly don't know what will.

0 (37m 19s):
They created a George Floyd Square. It was, it was, it was the moment, the moment that all crime was going to end in Washington DC and then, yeah, it turns out Washington DC is a terrible, a place filled with a crime. According to the Washington Post, a shake in Washington copes with surging violence. This is not normal. Oh, isn't it though? According to the Washington Post, Stephanie Heisman, a Northwest Washington event planner, knows she may sound almost absurdly cautious as she describes how after a regular Sunday dinner at a friend's house, five blocks away, she travels by car instead of walking home. She has her reasons. A year ago, she was awakened by gunfire outside her Adams Morgan apartment building, and from her seventh floor window, saw a car speeding away in August after a night out with her friends, her Uber driver couldn't reach her building because police had blocked off a street where bullets had just killed two men and fatally wounded a third.

0 (38m 2s):
It's ridiculous. Heisman said. On the other hand, I don't wanna randomly get shot. Violent crime has long been part of Washington life. The worst of it. During the early 1990s when drug trafficking propelled, the annual homicide sold to nearly 500 and DC earned an inglorious reputation as America's murder capital was actually during this period that Washington DC had to rename its basketball team. You'll recall that Washington DC's basketball team in the 1980s was called the Washington Bullets. And then they had to rename themselves because oops. And that's when they became the Washington Wizards. As though Gandalf is like walking the streets of Washington DC The volume of carnage these days is not nearly as high. Most DC rev residents are unlikely to ever be a victim of violence, but a sharp rise in crime over the past year, punctuated by reports of homicides, brazen shootings and carjackings by armed teenagers is rattling a city already struggling to recover from a pandemic that upended its rhythms and ravaged it's once thriving downtown.

0 (38m 50s):
I, I wonder how this happened. Oh, maybe it was that you guys decided that the police were bad. Maybe that, maybe that would be it. The spike in felonies, homicides and robberies are up 29 and 67% from the same time period last year. According to police stats, is not the only data causing alarm. The number of juvies arrested for carjacking has increased slightly since last year. 41 of the 64 charged between the ages of 12 and 15. As of August 31st, 81 miners had been shot in the city this year. Ooh, while a preponderance of violence occurs where it often has in the poor neighborhoods, stats show the geography of crime has become more diffused with prosperous areas, less immune than before. Well, I mean, equity, equity would suggest this is a necessary, obviously the richer areas also have to suffer from people being shot on the regular.

0 (39m 32s):
So that that is, that is exciting stuff in Washington, DC Keep voting Democrat. It's working out great for you. Same thing happening over in Philadelphia. By the way. There's new video that has emerged from Philadelphia showing addicts on the street in a trance-like state passed out on the sidewalk of the city's multiple homeless encampments. I mean, if this is not horrifying, third world crap, I'm not sure what is. This is Kensington areas in Philadelphia. For those who can't see the video is people literally just lying on the street, just in the middle of broad daylight, like zombie doubt. Just people. You would think that this was some sort of a horrifying plate. It is not. There's a homeless man who's just standing there on a street corner. I mean, this is just creepy as all living hell.

0 (40m 13s):
Just people zonked out. Obviously drug users are seen according to the daily mail, hunched over with no control of their limbs. Others are sprawled across the garbage covered streets. Large groups have taken over to the sidewalks, turning them into homeless encampments where many people live in their own filth. Many of the addicts living on the streets are forced to turn to crime and theft to sustain themselves. One local activist said businesses are using booby traps like sprinkler systems to keep drug addicts away from their storefronts. Businesses end up throwing soapy water on the ground so it's wet and it's not a comfortable place to sit down. There's businesses that set up sprinkler systems as well. Crime data reported by the Philadelphia Inquirer shows Kensington has one of the highest drug rates in the city.

0 (40m 54s):
Apparently one of the, one of the worst drugs on the street right now is, is a drug known as Tran. For those who don't know, that is a potent animal. Tranquilizer called Xylazine is a powerful sedative. And people mix it with fentanyl to make that even deadlier and worse. That is something the New York Times have been reporting on for a while back in January. There's an entire story about this. Say Xylazine causes wounds that erupt with a scaly dead tissue called escar. Untreated. It can lead to amputation. It induces a blackout stupor for hours, rendering users vulnerable to rape and robbery. When people come too. A high from the fentanyl has long since faded. They immediately crave more because Xylazine is a sedative and not an opioid. It resists standard opioid overdose reversal treatments.

0 (41m 35s):
More than 90% of Philadelphia's lab tested dope samples are now positive for Xylazine. It's too late for Philly. He said Sean Westfall, outreach worker with Prevention Point Philadelphia, a 30 year old health services center in Kensington, Philly Supply is saturated. If other places around the country have a choice to avoid it, they need to hear our story. A study published in June has detected xylazine in the drug supply in 36 states, as well as DC in New York City. Xylazine has been found in 25% of drug samples, but the saturation is certainly greater. And this is scary, scary stuff. The drug exists in a legal gray zone. It was improved 50 years ago by the F D A as a veterinarian prescribed analgesic. It's not listed as a controlled substance for animals or humans.

0 (42m 18s):
So it's not subject to strict monitoring. But. it started of course, with prescription opioids when those, those became harder to come by, people started moving on to tran. So this is what we've done to large swats of our population. It's, it's all working out great. By the way, guys, all, all this is working out beautifully. Probably a little bit more left-wing policy will fix these cities. Well maybe, maybe if we have some, you know, needle exchanges for the tran, that'll, that'll definitely help. Or maybe if we get rid of the cops. 'cause really the problem here is systemic racism. You know, as I said earlier when I came to the Republican, Congress, yelling at bad things in life is not a solution to the bad things. And yet that seems to be the policy that is being followed in these cities. I don't like Tran is not a solution to tran. I don't like homeless zombies on the street is not a solution to homeless zombies on the street.

0 (43m 1s):
You know, what's a solution? More law enforcement. You know, what's a solution? Mandatory drug drying out. You know, what's an actual solution? Involuntary commitment for the mentally ill. These are actual solutions that require actual funding and they fix the problem. But that might require somebody to actually have the courage to say that in an area where it's not popular. And more than that, it's not about courage by politicians, it's about voters coming to grips with reality. At a certain point, you can't blame the politicians anymore. If we're not cutting our debt. Maybe it's because we don't wanna cut our debt. We can blame politicians as much as you want. Or you can blame the fact that people have no capacity to think second order when it comes to politics. Alrighty folks. Time for some things that I like.

3 (43m 36s):
Alrighty. Well, one of the things we like here at the Bench Bureau Show is Birch Gold. They're one of our biggest Sponsors, obviously, and we talk with them every so often about the state of the economy.

0 (43m 43s):
Joining us on the line right now is Philip Patrick, a precious metal specialist from Birch Gold. So Philip, let's talk about the state of the economy. I mean, right now, Joe Biden is claiming we have strong economic growth. Inflation is coming under control. How do you see it?

4 (43m 56s):
Yeah, I mean, look, you can cherry pick the numbers and certainly make that argument, but I think it's a mistake to focus just on economic growth. The real question I think is, is how is the economy working for most Americans? And the numbers really don't look good over the last two and a half years. Look at food prices at home up 20%, electricity up 21, gasoline prices up 72%. Let's look at people's biggest expense, right? Housing, rent, payments rose 25%. Median mortgage payments up 85%. And very importantly, wage growth is trailed inflation consistently. In other words, it, it's not just our imagination versus virtually every essential is more expensive today than it was before Biden got in office and wages just haven't kept up.

4 (44m 44s):
Right? Consumer debt has recently hit an all time high, over a trillion dollars for the first time. So I think people are desperately trying to maintain their living standards in the face of Biden genomics. And I think that's the reality for most Americans today, despite how we try and dress up the numbers.

0 (45m 1s):
So, Philip, one of the things that they're claiming now is that they've brought inflation under control. The Federal Reserve obviously has increased interest rates to sky high rates, is why mortgages are now clocking in at seven, 8%. Now, the reality is that by historical averages, the interest rates aren't actually all that high at this point. But also the, the inflation rate is not all that low at this point. There's a lot of talk right now about the inflation rate being under control, but they usually target 2%. It's, it's well in excess of 3% still. So it's still 50% too high, but they're still claiming now that maybe they're gonna stop with the increases in the interest rate.

4 (45m 30s):
Yeah, look, lower inflation generally is good, good news, right? But there's a couple of points to remember. First of all, inflation is cumulative, right? A 10% inflation rate one year followed by 5%. Next means that everything costs 15% more. So easing inflation doesn't mean a return of purchasing power, it's just destroying it more slowly. Now, the other side of things, which I think is very important, is the Fed's preferred measure of inflation, which is core pc personal consumption expenditures. They've been more than double, as you mentioned, the 2% target for years. Now, the only thing that's really been driving that headline inflation number down has been energy prices.

4 (46m 11s):
And of course, they're starting to creep up again. Oil hit $90 a barrel just a few days ago. It's particularly concerning 'cause I think what it's showing us now that is in inflation is becoming entrenched in the economy. And I think, you know, this 2% target that the Fed have may be a pipe dream for the foreseeable future. It's proving particularly sticky at the moment.

0 (46m 33s):
Now, Philip, one of the things that's become patently obvious really since 2007, 2008, is how much power the central bankers have over the economy. Now, there used to be a time, it was now decades ago, where legislatures really had sort of the chief control over the economy, and you could hold them responsible if the policies were bad. There was still an interest in some level of fiscal discipline because you couldn't just print dollars willy-nilly and then pump them into the economy or blow the debt off for a couple of generations. Obviously that's not true anymore. And that means that the central bankers have been given, given this extraordinary power to control how much your dollars are worth, particularly the ones you've already paid taxes on and that are in the bank already.

4 (47m 7s):
Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's absurd. The power that the Federal Reserve have is, is really showing itself in today's economy. And the reality is, as you mentioned, they're an unelected body. We really can't hold them accountable. And, you know, this Federal Reserve has a problem as well. You know, the, the tools that they have available, I think are very limited. Their ability to raise rates significantly enough to crush inflation is limited. Look at what they did to the banks earlier this year. You know, the ability to fix the economy by lowering rates and stimulating, also very limited as well. So they've got their hands tied behind their back. But, but I agree with you, the Fed as, as a body, the power that they have over the economy is concerning when they're unelected and, and unaccountable.

Birch Gold Group (47m 52s):
We're speaking of Philip Patrick. He's a precious metal specialist and a spokesman for Birch Gold Group. So Philip, I get the question all the time that in, in a really sort of uneasy economy like this, and it really is uneasy, no one knows obviously where to where to put their money. It looks to me like the real estate market is going to have some sort of sell off here. Just because the mortgage rates are so high, there's a lot of stickiness because people don't actually wanna sell their homes because then they'll have to take a new mortgage that isn't gonna be at 2.5%, it's gonna be at 7%, but at some point people will lose their jobs, they'll lose their savings, then they're gonna have to sell those houses. The same thing is happening in commercial real estate. I've been talking with people in commercial real estate, and the occupancy rates are, are dropping fairly rapidly at this point, and that that means the underlying value is, is really going down the Wall Street Journal has widely reported this Meanwhile when it comes to the stock market. A lot of uneasiness there. New IPOs are doing a fraction of what they were doing just a couple of of years ago. And, and Meanwhile, if you, if you put your money into a money market account, you might be earning the best return. It's a very confusing economy. Now, obviously you have a vested interest, you're with Birch Gold, but what do you recommend in terms of things like precious metals as a hedge against all of this? Look, I think precious metals work very, very well in climates like this simply because of the nature of our problems, right? We have inflation, which we've mentioned. We have potential recession on the horizon tied into that, I think we have issues with our currency longer term. The world seems to be, at least for now, distancing from the dollar. These things, of course, very negative in isolation, but very positive drivers for safe haven commodities like gold and silver. So the climate's really good. And as you mentioned, you know, the options out there at the moment are very limited. So precious metals make a ton of sense in climates like this. Philip Patrick, precious metal specialist spokesman for Birch Gold Group, really appreciate the time. Folks, if you do want to get involved with Birch Gold, we've talked about them a lot on the show. They're a sponsor of the program. Birch Gold will make sure that you have all of your questions answered. You can text Ben to 98. 98 98, they'll get you a free information kit on Gold. They've got that A plus rating with the better Business bureaus, thousands of happy customers. I've trusted Birch Gold myself when I diversify in gold. So go check them out right now by texting Ben to 98. 98 98. Philip, really appreciate the time.

4 (49m 58s):
Thank you. Same

0 (49m 60s):
Alrightyy time for some things that I hate. So what's going on in Israel right now is actually quite astonishing. The Supreme Court of Israel is claiming that it has the ability to strike down literally any law, including what they call the basic law in Israel for violating the Declaration of Independence for Israel. So lemme put this in context, and this has ramifications for the United States because this is the way that the left would love to see courts rule in the future and, and how the courts have ruled in the past. So basically, here's the way it works. The United States is we're, we're really lucky. We have a written constitution, which means that the very least you can refer to that document to determine what exactly courts can do and can't do in terms of striking things down what leg, what legislatures can and cannot do.

0 (50m 42s):
Israel doesn't have anything like that. Israel has a Declaration of Independence, which is not a piece of law. It is a, it is a statement of broad purposes about how Israel should be Jewish and democratic. That's pretty much what it is. It's not law. There's no constitution there because the Israelis couldn't come to some sort of agreement about how exactly the government should work, what laws were in bounds, what, what was constitutional, what was not. So they basically just agreed to disagree. That means that every so often they pass what they call a basic law. A basic law is a piece of majoritarian legislation that then carries with it an inability to override that law, except with sort of a super majority, these basic laws exist. They, they've, they've been created throughout Israeli history. The Supreme Court of Israel typically has used basic law in order to strike down non-basic law.

0 (51m 26s):
See, in the same way that the Supreme Court of the United States will use the Constitution to strike down particular legislation, the same thing sort of happens here in Israel. The Supreme Court historically has used the basic laws as in as a way of striking down non-basic law. Now, in the 1990s, there was a seizure of power by the Supreme Court, and they decided that from now on, they could basically just say reasonableness to strike down a variety of executive actions and legislation. Well, Bibi Netanyahu's current coalition, they said the Supreme Court has too much power. We don't want them to do that anymore. So now you're gonna have to cite something that's not reasonableness. If you wanna strike down legislation, and they wanna make this a basic law, right? They, they, they actually encoded this in a basic law saying this will now be the law of the state of Israel. And it is considered quasi constitutional.

0 (52m 7s):
So one of the questions, the big question that's now come up before the Supreme Court is whether the Supreme Court of Israel can strike down a basic law in the name of, hmm, in the name of, hmm. Like again, normally in the United States, use the Constitution to strike down a bad piece of legislation. In Israel, the basic law is the quasi constitutional highest law. How can the Supreme Court cite something else to strike down a basic law? So the argument that's currently happening at the Supreme Court level is whether the Supreme Court can use the Declaration of Independence to strike down a law, okay? That imagine if the Supreme Court of the United States went back to the Declaration of Independence and said that because the Declaration of Independence says that you have the pursuit of happiness, that means that we can strike down anything we want.

0 (52m 49s):
We'd all go, whoa, who gave you that power? That's not like, that's a pretty vague sentiment for you to strike down things. But that's pretty much what Israel Supreme Court is now declaring. They're now declaring that because they don't like the current legislature of the state of Israel, they have willy-nilly power to strike down anything they want. In the name of an incredibly vague document, the Declaration of Independence of the State of Israel, which is not in fact practical law, it does not spell out how the state of Israel is supposed to work. It does not spell out how the Knesset is supposed to work. It doesn't spell out virtually any of these things. It has a bunch of sort of baseline statements about what they hope the state of Israel will be, right. Talking about how it foster the development of the country for the benefit of its inhabitants. And it'll be based on freedom, justice, and peace, and will ensure complete equality of social and political rights, and it will guarantee freedom of religion, conscious language, education, and culture.

0 (53m 37s):
But those are pretty vague statements to strike down a piece of legislation that simply says, the Supreme Court does not have the ability to say that something is unreasonable and then strike it down. If the Supreme Court were to do this, it's a constitutional crisis in Israel. Because effectively what they're saying is that elections can be overridden by the Supreme Court at any time that anytime a basic law established, which again is supposed to be, it would be as though the Congress of the United States and various state legislatures passed a constitutional Amendment to the Constitution, and the Supreme Court then stepped in and said, in the name of the Declaration of Independence, we strike down this constitutional Amendment. Like, well, you can't do that. No one gave you the power to do that. That's basically what's happening right now.

0 (54m 16s):
According to the times of Israel, during fraught exchanges between the court and the attorneys defending the legislation, one Justice indicated Israel's democracy was at stake. Again, I, I have to say the irony of people speaking in the name of judicial tyranny saying that they're doing so on behalf of democracy, it's really galling, it's really, really galling. Basically, the Supreme Court right now is arguing there should be no like, name your limits. What are the limits on the Supreme Court of Israel? There are none according to the Supreme Court of Israel, and according to many of its supporters, they lost an election. They don't like the results of the election. So now they're going to use the Supreme Court to basically establish that there are no limits at all. Ilan Bombach is the attorney representing the government. He argued the justices are empowered to interpret the legislator's words.

0 (54m 56s):
There's no legal or constitutional basis for them to review basic laws. In response, justice Alex Stein asked Bombak, what is the source of the Knesset authority to legislate laws? Baba pointed to a 1950 Supreme Court ruling. Stein noted that the Knesset was formed before that the original power source was in the Declaration of Independence. Well, yes, in the sense that it says there should be a legislature But, it doesn't have like specific provisions on how lists work. All of that was established later. Other justices also challenged Bombak indicating that in their view, since the Declaration of Independence defines Israel as a Jewish and democratic state, that Knesset cannot legislate laws, even basic laws that erode Israel's Jewish or democratic character. Which means that the high court can simply strike down whatever it wants to sign, strike down, which is pretty amazing stuff.

0 (55m 42s):
Again, the Declaration of Independence of the state of Israel is in fact a basic document, but that does not mean that it empowers the Supreme Court to override anything in the name of the Declaration of Independence any more than the Supreme Court of the United States can use the Declaration of Independence, which they far more important documents to the Western civilization to, to strike down law. The Supreme Court almost never cites the Declaration of Independence because there is no purpose to doing so. It is not a piece of legislation if, if the Supreme Court in Israel does that, it's going to be a rather large mess. 'cause a huge percentage of the Israeli population is gonna believe that elections basically have no consequences at all unless you're on the left. In which case they just run roughshod. That's really negative stuff and I've, I've railed in the United States against people in the United States doing this routine where if the bad guys win, that means that democracy is over.

0 (56m 29s):
They're doing it in Israel too. It's really bad for any civilization already. Guys, the rest of the show is continuing right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be talking about our educational system, which apparently is rife with them, some rather perverse people. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.