0 (1s):
Downloading. an app can be the start of a teen learning, a new skill, discovering a community, or igniting their creativity. But Parents should have a say in which apps are right for their teens. That's why Instagram wants to work with Congress to require parental approval wherever teens under 16 download apps. Learn more at instagram.com/parental approval.

ExpressVPN (31s):
This show is sponsored by ExpressVPN. It's time to stand up against Big Tech protector data ExpressVPN dot com slash BEN.

0 (36s):
Yesterday Hunter Biden announced that he would be avoiding a subpoena by the House Oversight Committee. The Republicans on that committee wanted to ask Hunter about his business relationships with dad. Joe Hunter is currently under indictment for nine charges related to tax evasion, all based on unreported income and spending from his lucrative years as his dad's alleged. Bagman Republicans voted last night to formerly open an impeachment inquiry, which presumably gives them some sort of greater subpoena power. So. yesterday Hunter showed up in Washington DC to grandstand. He began by announcing that Hunter Biden was the real victim, A victim of Republican MAGA cruelty Hunter Biden according to his father, the media and wait for it.

2 (1m 17s):
Hunter Biden is the victim. In fact Hunter Biden is the greatest victim. Were not for Hunter Biden's last name. He wouldn't be prosecuted for gun charges and tax evasion of over a million dollars. Were not for his last name. He wouldn't be dragged before Congress to talk about his business. Here, he was yesterday.

3 (1m 33s):
For, six years. Maga Republicans, including members of the House committees who are in a closed door session session right now, have impugned my character and invaded my Privacy, attacked my wife, my children, my family, and my friends. They have ridiculed my struggle with addiction. They've belittled my recovery and they have tried to dehumanize me all to embarrass and damage my father who has devoted his entire public life to service.

2 (2m 12s):
So we impugned his character. He didn't impugn his own character by spending, you know, $800,000 on sex workers. We impugned his character. We impugned his children. I mean, other than the child that he refuses to support with child support and refuses to give his last name. We made fun of his addiction, you know, because he put pictures of himself on his computer and then wrote in his memoir about how he snorted Parmesan cheese off a carpet, which is inherently hilarious. We dehumanized his recovery because of course he finger paints for recovery and then sells those paintings for half a million dollars to his dad's business donors, and we've dehumanized him. Man, that's that's the worst thing of all. Of course, we're not for Hunter Biden's last name.

2 (2m 52s):
He would also likely be a homeless drug addict without a penny to his name. Unpaid child support and no life prospects at all. As Hunter once admitted, his last name was gold to foreign investors. His word gold Hunter once said his father's job, quote, open doors that wouldn't be opened up to other people. Hunter, by the way, is not the only member of the Biden family who feels that way. Jim Biden, Joe's brother told potential business partners. Quote, we've got people all around the world who want to invest in Joe Biden. Frank Joe's other brother called the Biden name a quote, tremendous asset for business. Val, his sister says, quote, I had a better seat at the table because my brother is at the head of the table. Hunter. Biden is not a victim. He's anything but a victim. But according to Hunter, a man who again tried to disown his own daughter, father while he was a drug adult derelict and who urged his father to do the same to his granddaughter, all while he spent nearly a million dollars on prostitutes and drugs, the whole debacle surrounding Hunter and his dad, according to Hunter, Biden is a winch hunt.

2 (3m 44s):
Here we go.

3 (3m 46s):
There is no fairness or decency in what these Republicans are doing. They have lied over and over about every aspect of my personal and professional life, so much so that their lies have become the false facts believed by too many people.

4 (4m 9s):
No

3 (4m 10s):
Sir. No matter how many times it is debunked, they continue to insist that my father's support of Ukraine against Russia is the result of a non-existent bribe. They displayed naked photos of me during an Oversight hearing, and they have taken the light of my dad's love, the light of my dad's love for me, and presented it as darkness.

2 (4m 38s):
So a few things on that one. First, he suggests that Republicans are saying that Joe Biden is supporting Ukraine against Russia because of Barisma or something. No, that's actually not even the accusation. Then he suggests that Republicans showed a photo of him, a nude. He'd be talking there about Marjorie Taylor Greene in a house hearing where she was talking about the fact that Hunter and his daddy lied about the provenance of the laptop on which Hunter Biden had placed such photos. But here's the bigger point. When he says that Republicans have turned his dad's love for him into darkness, sometimes love can turn into darkness like say, when your powerful father uses his power in order to clear millions of dollars for his family, using you as the family Bagman, even knowing that giving you access to the family credit card allows you to fund your sex and drug addictions.

2 (5m 25s):
Putting aside the Simi personal situation of the Biden family, however, what we really have here is a pretty cut and dried corruption case. Yesterday, Hunter claimed that his father was not financially involved in his business. Note the words financially involved in his business.

3 (5m 40s):
Let me state as clearly as I can. My father was not financially involved in my business, not as a practicing lawyer, not as a board member of Barisma, not in my partnership with a Chinese private businessman, not in my investments at home, nor abroad, and certainly not as an artist.

2 (5m 60s):
Well, that is some pretty careful wording right there. Financially involved, not totally involved, not involved in my business at all, financially involved as in didn't sign checks on behalf of the business. Wasn't an executive, didn't fund it himself, wasn't doing the 10 forties, but how about whether Joe was involved at all in Hunter's business? Well, obviously Joe was. He always has been. In reality, Hunter Biden has never in his life held a job unconnected to his father or to his dad's corruption as a Delaware senator Joe is very close with vice president of MBNA, which just happens to be the biggest bank in Delaware. NBNA hired Hunter to a management training post after Hunter left. MBNA, Hunter got a job at the Clinton Department of Commerce.

2 (6m 40s):
Then he went to work as a lobbyist for a former Biden campaign staffer named William Ker. During that time, NBNA paid Hunter a hundred thousand dollars a year NBNA for what it's worth made, bang while they pushed hunter's career. According to the American Spectator, by 1998, that bank had become the second largest issuer of Visa and MasterCards in the country. Some analysts believed it would eventually overtake Citicorp to become the nation's biggest credit card bank. How convenient Hunter's lobbying work earned him huge bucks. As per the New Yorker quote, an informal arrangement was established. Biden wouldn't ask Hunter about his lobbying clients and Hunter wouldn't tell his father about them. It wasn't like we all sat down and agreed on it. It came naturally. Hunter said, Hunter has been clearing family money for years.

2 (7m 19s):
On the back of Joe Biden's position as he texted his own daughter in January, 2019. I hope you can all do what I did and pay for everything for this entire family for 30 years. It's really hard, but don't worry. Unlike Pop, I won't make you give me half your salary in just a second. We'll continue detailing exactly why people are so suspicious of the Hunter Joe connection.

Birch Gold Group (7m 40s):
First, let us talk about diversifying your savings with physical precious metals these days. So the Federal Reserve has now decided that they're not going to raise the interest rates anymore, and now they're talking about lowering the interest rates as of next year at least three times. Well, you know, is that gonna inflate the currency again? Fair bet that it might. Birch gold Group's most popular special of the year is on right now through December 22nd. For every five grand you spend with Birch Gold, they'll send you a one ounce Silver eagle For free tech spend 2 98, 98 98 and claim your eligibility. Now you can purchase gold and Silver. Have a chip directly to your home or have Birch Gold's precious metal specialist help you convert an existing IRA or 401k into a tax sheltered IRA in gold for no money out of pocket, and they'll send you free Silver for every five grand you purchase. Keep it for yourself or give someone something with real value as a stocking stuffer this year. Just text keyword Ben to 98, 98 98 and claim your eligibility today. Birch Gold. They're the people I trust to buy gold from. With an a plus rating with the Better Business Bureau, thousands of happy customers. Now is the best time to buy gold from Birch Gold. Text BEN to 98. 98 98. Claim your eligibility for free Silver on qualifying purchases before December 22nd. Text Ben to 98. 98 98.

Genucel (8m 46s):
I've got a Holiday gift idea that's sure to make you the hero of the season. Now we all know the holidays can be a little bit hectic. The shopping, cooking, never ending list of all the things to do. This is why you need the gift of Genu. Sell skincare from now until Christmas. Genu Cell's most popular package has a special discount. Just for my listeners@genusell.com slash Shapiro, treat yourself and your loved ones to the absolute best skincare in the world. These troubling forehead wrinkles, fine line skin, redness, sagging jawline, all that disappears right before your eyes With genu cell's Most popular collection Genucel promises immediate effect. You'll see results in less than 12 hours guaranteed, or your money back Plus, included in every most popular package is your free hyaluronic acid serum for skin hydration for restore that youthful appearance. Genucel has sent a ton of products to the office. People are loving it again. My family's been using Genucel products for like a decade. At this point, you deserve to look and feel your best this Holiday season. Head on over to genu sell.com/ Shapiro and get this incredible Holiday discount. Every order today is instantly upgraded to free express shipping. That's genu sell.com/ Shapiro today. Again, genu sell.com/ Shapiro to get started.

2 (9m 47s):
Okay, back to why exactly people are so suspicious of Hunter and Joe, why impeachment inquiry has been opened here. Why hunter's not a victim? Well, in 2013, Hunter Biden joined with Chinese investors to create a company called Bohi Harvest RST, equity Investment Management Co Company Limited, it's very long name BHR for short. That investment fund was controlled by the Bank of China. The very next month, Joe Biden brought Hunter with him on Air Force two to Beijing where Hunter and Joe met the CEO of BHR one Jonathan Lee. The business license in China for the new corporation was quickly approved and Hunter joined the board. In May, 2014, Barisma a Ukrainian natural gas and oil company announced that Hunter Biden would join its board of directors.

2 (10m 28s):
Joe Biden was overseeing Ukrainian policy for the White House at the time. In March, 2015, Hunter organized a business dinner in Washington DC and Joe stopped by to meet a high level Barisma official VM pki. Later that year in November, Persky suggested US officials should visit Ukraine and talk with Ukrainian prosecutor General Victor Shoken, as well as President Petro Chenko about token's, investigations into the CEO of Barisma. Michael Chesky that very same month, Amos Hochstein, special envoy and coordinator for International Energy Affairs in the Obama White House met with Hunter to talk about Barisma. Five days after that he met with Joe in the West Wing. The next day he called Hunter again. The month after that, Joe hosted a party attended by both Hochstein and Hunter.

2 (11m 9s):
In December, 2015, Joe Biden went to Ukraine where he demanded that Victor Shoan be fired and threatened to withdraw $1 billion in IMF loans if he was not. Two days later, Poro Shanko acquiesced and committed to firing Shoan During this very time, a confidential human source later told the FBI Barisma. CFOM. Pky said he had hired Hunter Biden to protect us through his dad from all kinds of problems. A month or two later, the source said, Chesky dismissed any threats from Shoken as easily solved, saying, don't worry, Hunter will take care of all those issues through his dad. According to that confidential human source, Chesky also said it cost five million dollars to pay one Biden and five million dollars to quote, pay another Biden. Who could these bidens be?

2 (11m 49s):
In February, Chesky would get a Hunter extravagant birthday gifts. A couple of weeks later, shooken was fired and Biden called Poroshenko to personally thank him. Also, during this time, Joe Biden was apparently using a pseudonymous private email address Robert L. Peters to email his son Hunter. With regard to Ukraine, Joe was also, according to Hunter's business partner, Deon Archer routinely called into meetings on the phone so Hunter could exhibit his ties with Daddy. Democrats have defended Joe by claiming he called only to talk about the weather, which is exactly what a racketeering head would do in order to demonstrate the viability of connection with power. I get the Mafia boss on the phone. I'm in a bar. I say, you need to pay your your dudes I need, I need your fees on the bar right now, and then I get the mafia you want.

2 (12m 31s):
You wanna talk to Joe? Here's Joe. Joe can tell. How's the weather hang up? That's all you need. In December, 2015, Hunter Biden and CEFC Chairman Y Jean Ming began communicating regarding a possible US partnership. In January, 2017, Y gave Hunter a diamond worth 80 grand. I don know about you. The only people that I would ever think about giving a diamond worth that kinda money to like my wife. Maybe in March, 2017, Y's company wired three million dollars to Robinson Walker, a company owned by a Biden associate Rob Walker. That same day Joe Biden attended A-C-E-F-C meeting at the Four Seasons in Los Angeles. But don't worry, Joe wasn't financially involved in Hunter's business.

2 (13m 11s):
Was he involved in Hunter's business? Yeah, a little. In May, 2017, Hunter's Business Associates infamously emailed each other about creating A-C-E-F-C deal that would include 10 held by H for the big guy. It's worth noting that other documentation from a confidential human source also referred to Joe Biden as the big guy. With regard to Barisma, former Hunter business partner, Tony Bobinski similarly says the big guy referred to Joe. By July, 2017, Hunter was writing to the head of a Chinese company. Quote, I am sitting here with my father and we would like to understand why the commitment made has not been fulfilled. I'm very concerned that the chairman has either changed his mind or broken our deal without telling me, or that he's unaware of the promises and assurances that have been made and have not been kept.

2 (13m 52s):
Tell the director, I would like to resolve this now before it gets out of hand and now said, Hunter means tonight and Z gets a call or text from anyone involved in this other than Jang or the Chairman. I will make certain that between the man sitting next to me that would be Joe and every person he knows and my ability to forever hold a grudge that you'll regret not following my direction. All too often people mistake kindness for weakness and all too often I'm standing over to the top of them saying, I warned you from this moment until whenever he reaches me. Okay my friend, I'm sitting here waiting for the call with my father. I sure hope whatever it is you are doing is very, very, very important. On August 2nd, 2017, Hunter wrote an email explaining that the chairman, presumably Xi Xining, had now cut a quote, much more lasting and lucrative arrangement all caps.

2 (14m 36s):
That arrangement was the creation of Hudson West three. An entity owned 50% by CEFC. Agent Gong Gwen Dong, and 50% by Hunter. The next day, Hunter told Gwen Dong via WhatsApp, quote, the Bidens are the best I know at doing exactly what the chairman wants from this partnership. In January of 2019, Hunter's assistant Katie Dodge wrote an email to Biden Aid Richard Ruffner saying that Joe had elected to pay Hunter's legal bills amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars and including his legal fees for restructuring his JV with the Bank of China. We know all of this only because Hunter isn't just a Bagman for his dad. He is, as we should all remember, a drug adult derelict. We'll get to how we know all of this in just one second and the scandal involved in that.

BON CHARGE (15m 17s):
First, the holidays are here. If you're looking for the perfect gift for someone you love or even something nice for yourself, you should check out Bond Charge. Bond Charge is a holistic wellness brand with a huge range of evidence-based products to optimize your life in every way. Their extensive range of premium wellness products helps you sleep better, perform better, recover faster, reduce inflammation, and so much more. From Blue Light Glasses to Red Light Therapy, BON CHARGE products help you naturally address the issues of our modern day way of life effortlessly and with maximum impact. My favorite product from BON CHARGE, they're infrared sauna blanket. I'm not the only one as a dinner the other night with somebody and she was telling my wife exactly how much she loved Bone Charges product. She's like, it's, it's amazing. She wouldn't stop braving about it. It got tiresome. Actually, the infrared sauna blanket has all kinds of benefits. That Sauna Blanket insert is designed to fit inside your sauna blanket to absorb your sweat and help keep you dryer. It uses infrared light which heats the body directly rather than the air around you, like a traditional sauna, which means you get the same benefits at a lower heat bond charge ships worldwide offers exceptional customer service, comes with a 12 month warranty. This Holiday season bond charge is offering a massive 25% offsite wide head on over to bond charge.com. The 25% off code will be auto applied to your entire order. That's bond charge.com. Hurry while it's in stock.

2 (16m 24s):
Okay, so how do we know about all of this scandalous material? Well, if you recall the story broke wide open in mid-October 2020 just before the election when Hunter's laptop Hunter well hides a kite, had left his laptop in a repair shop in Delaware and then never shown up again. That laptop came into public view. It contained it not just pictures and video of drug use and prostitution, but the contents of those emails in WhatsApp messages, the whole Biden criminal corruption story was emerging just before the election. So Biden lied and so did members of the deep state and so did the media on October 22nd, 2020. Biden lied right out in open debate. Joe said quote, I have not taken a penny from any foreign source ever in my life. My son has not made money in terms of the thing about what are you talking about, China?

2 (17m 5s):
The only guy who made money in China is Trump. The American public never got the full story before the election. That was because the FBI vaguely mourned America's largest social media services, that the laptop might just be Russian disinformation. So the social media services actively shut down dissemination of the New York Post blockbuster story. Then hundreds of former pseudo experts on intelligence signed another letter, false attesting that the laptop had the hallmarks of Russian disinformation. Then Joe's campaign suggested it was Russian disinformation too. All this time, Joe and Hunter and everybody else knew the laptop was real, including the FBI. All this time Hunter was also under active criminal investigation by the FBI. He had been since 2019.

2 (17m 47s):
That investigation covered two separate matters, Hunter's years long tax evasion and hunter's false attestation on a gun form that he was not a drug addict. In 2023, US attorney David Weiss of Delaware, a man who'd worked with Bo Biden and had long connections with all the power players in the state of Delaware announced a deal with Hunter. It was a sweetheart deal. Hunter would get no jail time for the tax charges. He would receive a diversion on the gun charge. The deal also included a cleverly created proviso to immunize Hunter from all further investigation on his foreign dealings, including possible and obvious violations of the Foreign Agent's Registration Act. That proviso was included in the diversion charge, not the tax charge. All of this blew up in public view because two IRS whistleblowers came forward saying that the DOJ had attempted to cram through the sweetheart deal in order to avoid implicating Joe.

2 (18m 33s):
Not only that, they claimed that Joe Biden's DOJ under Merrick Garland had actually stopped the investigation by refusing Weiss's special counsel status and that the DOJ had pushed through the deal. The whistleblowers, as it turns out, were right according to the New York Times. Quote, Mr. Weiss appeared willing to forego any prosecution of Mr. Biden at all. His office came close to agreeing to end the investigation without requiring a guilty plea on any charges. But the correspondence reveals that his position relayed through his staff changed in the spring. Around the time a pair of IRS officials on the case accused the DOJ of hamstringing the investigation. Now Mr. Weiss suddenly demanded that Biden plead guilty to committing tax offenses. The deal finally blew up when the judge in Hunter's case refused the plea deal. She noted it was totally unprecedented.

2 (19m 13s):
Then to cover up that debacle, Merrick Garland announced that Weiss would be a special counsel. You know, just in time to avoid Weiss having to testify before Congress about the sweetheart deal. Well now Weiss has finally charged Hunter on nine tax charges. Hunter will likely go to jail, but just remember he's not going to jail because he's a victim and there is no way in hell that Joe Biden was ignorant of all of this. That is why the impeachment inquiry has now been voted on and is gaining steam. Hunter says it's all about politics, of course, and as with any political act, politics are of course part of the game. But Hunter also says the impeachment inquiry itself is here is Hunter,

3 (19m 46s):
And in the depths of my addiction, I was extremely irresponsible with my finances. But to suggest that his grounds for an impeachment inquiry is beyond the absurd, it's shameless. There is no evidence to support the allegations that my father was financially involved in my business because it did not happen.

2 (20m 11s):
Well, no, actually the only shameless person here is the guy who sells $500,000 finger paintings to his dad's. Donors then refuses to pay child support and insist that any settlement involved denying his daughter the right to use the only actual asset the Biden family has. Joe Biden's family name Hunter should be hit with contempt and he will be hit with contempt. The only question is how much more information is gonna drip out that debunks. Every last argument Joe Biden has ever made about the innocence of his son and his own ignorance about his son's business arrangements. Again, the notion that Joe and Hunter were totally disconnected is a lie. It's obviously untrue. There is evidence to that effect and despite what the media will tell you about how there's no there there, that is not true whatsoever.

2 (20m 53s):
It turns out that Joe has nothing to say about any of this. Here was Joe Biden on all of this.

6 (20m 60s):
Ask the press to step out so we can begin our briefing. Thank you, thank you, thank you President

5 (21m 4s):
Biden

2 (21m 17s):
And Joe is out. He will catch you later. In just one second, we'll get to a weird aspect of Hunter Biden's big announcement that he wasn't going to, you know, walk 10 feet into the building and testify yesterday.

Legacybox (21m 27s):
First, are you still searching for the perfect gift? There's still time to buy the best Holiday gift ever with Legacybox. This is a meaningful, awesome gift. Legacybox the simple, safe way to reclaim all that priceless family footage you haven't seen in years. Legacybox preserves your family's recorded moments digitally ensuring their safety forever. By going to Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro, you can get your family's videotapes converted for just nine bucks, and photos professionally scanned for as low as 7 cents each. I've done it myself, I've done it for my parents, I've done it for my in-Laws, I've done it for myself. Again, go out to the garage. You can see a bunch of old film reels. Do you have a film projector? You can see a bunch of VHS tapes. You got a VCR in the house, do you? If not, why not get that stuff transferred to a format you can actually use? The process is easy. It sends in your Legacybox filled with all that stuff and their team digitizes everything by hand right here in the United States. So get it back on the cloud or thumb drive, along with your originals. Legacybox digitizes over 15 types of analog media, whether it's VHS Super, eight millimeter film reels, photo negatives, they've got you covered. Make this Holiday season special. Give the gift of Memories Legacybox. It's one of the few products that are in stock and ready to ship. Get your family's videotapes converted for just nine bucks. Photos professionally scanned for as low as 7 cents each during this exclusive last minute Holiday offer from Legacybox. Go to Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro. That's Legacybox dot com slash Shapiro.

2 (22m 39s):
So there was a weird moment at the White House yesterday after all of this news broke and Hunter had done his, you're out of order. Everyone's out of order. This whole court is out of order. Al Pacino routine from injustice for all. Kareem Jean Pire was asked about the fact that Joe Biden had apparently known that Hunter was gonna do this. This. So that looks an awful lot like obstruction. If you are subpoenaed, you now have a duty to appear before Congress. If somebody helps you not appear before Congress, that's kind of obstruction. Here's Kain. Jean-Pierre trying to speak to that.

7 (23m 12s):
Did he spend any time watching what his son had to say outside the capitol?

8 (23m 16s):
So a couple, just a couple of things on that and I want to be really clear. Look, as you know, Hunter Biden is a private citizen, and so I certainly would refer you to his representatives. Look, you know, the president was certainly familiar with what his son was going to say, and I think what you saw was from the heart from his son. And you've heard, you've heard me say this, you've heard the president say this, this, when it comes to the President and the First Lady, they are proud of him continuing to rebuild his life. They're proud of their son

2 (23m 53s):
Again, the attempt to turn what is a corruption scandal into they're just proud of their son is really weak. Not only that, she just said out loud that Joe Biden knew full well that Hunter was going to avoid the subpoena. So why didn't he just tell him not to avoid the subpoena kind of obstruction? Is it not? Apparently it was not just Joe involved in the sort of obstruction behavior. According to Politico, Hunter Biden pulled off his surprise appearance at the Capitol on Wednesday with the help of a fellow California resident, Eric Swalwell. Yes, the farting congressman, the man who was tripping a Chinese by the Democratic lawmaker, confirmed a politico that he reserved the Senate swamp a spot mere feet from the Capitol that often hosts press conferences for Hunter Biden's dramatic remarks.

2 (24m 35s):
TV cameras spotted swalwell before the president's beside the President's son as Hunter sought to go on offense against the house GOP. But apparently it's not just that. He helped set this whole thing up. Apparently he also helped coordinate with the White House on this one person who knew about the sudden appearance. The president himself, two people familiar with Wednesday's morning events told Politico that Hunter Biden notified Joe of his plans. Again, kind of obstruction. I'm noticing we are weirdly obstruction. Well the Republicans of course are fighting mad about it. Representative Chip Roy of Texas went after Hunter Biden yesterday.

9 (25m 10s):
He said an important word. He said his dad didn't have any involvement financially. That's right, right? He didn't say it was a blanket, you know that he wasn't involved. That's really important. Hunter Biden is basically an ongoing domino fall of stupid decisions and stupid statements. And we're seeing that right here, going to the Capitol and saying his dad wasn't involved in financial dealings. Yeah, we'll see if that's true, but that is a big tell to me. We all know that his dad was involved and enriching Hunter. We all know that foreign entities were sending millions of dollars to them. We know from whistleblower testimony that they were slow walking the IRS from being able to go after the investigation in 2014 and 2015.

9 (25m 50s):
We know these things to be true, so we're gonna have an inquiry today. We'll seek the truth. We've been having to do all of the work the Department of Justice refuses to do and, and look, we can also hold him in contempt if that's what we need to do in the House of Representatives and then see where this process goes.

2 (26m 6s):
Meanwhile, house Oversight committee chair James Comer who's been leading this entire investigation, he says, we do expect Hunter Biden to comply,

10 (26m 13s):
That we expect him to come in and be deposed. This is a normal process in an investigation. This has been a serious, credible, transparent investigation from day one. We've published four bank memorandums. We've had countless press conferences. This is an investigation about public corruption At the highest levels, we have accumulated mountains of evidence that's concerning to an overwhelming majority of Americans. We have specific questions in there and I think we're gonna allow you in there to see the piles and piles of documents, of bank statements, of emails, of text messages that we've worked very hard on in this committee over the last eight or nine months.

10 (26m 54s):
We expect to depose the president's son and then we'll be more than happy to have a public hearing with him.

2 (27m 1s):
Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, who's on both the judiciary and the Oversight committees. He says, listen, if he's not gonna show up, we'll hold him in contempt.

11 (27m 9s):
What we want is the facts and the way you get the facts and every single de every single investigation I've been involved in is you bring people in for an interview behind closed doors where you can get those facts. And then as the chairman said, we'd love for him to come public. Finally, I would say this, Mr. Biden's counsel and the White House have both argued that the reason he couldn't come for a deposition was because there wasn't a formal vote for an impeachment inquiry. Well, that's gonna happen in a few hours. We think it's gonna pass. We think the House of Representatives will go on record with the power that solely resides in the house to say we are in an official impeachment inquiry phase of our Oversight. And when that happens, we'll see what their excuse is then. They should have been here today.

11 (27m 49s):
But once we take that vote, we expect him to come in for a, for his interview, for his deposition. And frankly, we'll also I think look at contempt proceedings as we move forward.

2 (27m 60s):
So just for the facts, the the reality is that contempt of Congress doesn't mean a whole hell of a lot. You have criminal contempt where you actually have to file charges with the DOJ. The DOJ has to decide whether to go forward with those charges. You have civil contempt in which you can ask the judicial bench to enforce a congressional subpoena. But that takes a while. And then you have inherent contempt, which is where you actually send the House or Senate sergeants at arms to detain and imprison somebody, which has really never been used. So it's, it's sort of an empty threat. But again, this is the game and let's be real about this. There are two aspects. One is the actual corruption of Joe Biden and Hunter Biden and the fact that a lot of this stuff was taking place, these relationships were being formed, promises were being made while Hunter Biden's dad was vice president of the United States under Barack Obama and a lot of the manipulative coverup was happening while his dad was actually president and it was the DOJ doing that manipulative coverup with those sweetheart deals.

2 (28m 51s):
But there's another aspect of this too, and that is the Democrats opened this can, they opened this can, and now the can is open Democrats impeached, Donald Trump, not once but twice, and they did it on the basis of no criminality. They did not even allege criminality in their impeachment proceedings. They opened inquiries over a phone call that he had with Vladimir's Zelensky with regard actually specifically and weirdly to an investigation by the Ukrainians into the corruption of Barisma. Turns out that corruption fairly obviously is real. So that is number one. And then number two was over January 6th where no criminal charges were actually alleged by the members of the House impeachment committee.

2 (29m 31s):
And so once that can was open, the notion that Republicans were not going to use that against Joe Biden is insane. When you impeach somebody, not once but twice, and when you threaten to impeach 'em on day one, which is what Democrats did, the minute that Donald Trump entered office, it was only a matter of time until Republicans opened an impeachment inquiry into, into Joe Biden. And one of two things will happen. Either mutually assured destruction will be restored, in which case both parties go, listen, we can't keep impeaching each other's presidents. We, we really can't. Or it'll be like this all the way until the end of time. And if it's like this, I suppose it's like this, it doesn't seem like the end of the world to me, frankly. Investigations subpoenas, presidents being held under the gun. Alright? I mean, if this is, if this is the world that Democrats chose for all of us to live in, I guess I can live with that.

2 (30m 13s):
Don't threaten me with a good dime. Meanwhile, Democrats are really upset about all of this. A Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez. Now she has her lines to read and she reads them with passion and lots of hand motions. She says The Biden impeachment in inquiry is an exercise in futility. I'm, I'm certainly glad that someone informed her what that, what that phrase means

12 (30m 31s):
Their own. That, by the way, is the own Republican witness said that there are, from what he has seen, there are not grounds for an impeachment inquiry or rather frankly impeachment in general of President Biden. But that has not deterred the Republican side from continuing to try to force through a completely groundless and unsubstantiated, I won't even call it an investigation, I'll just call it a exercise in futility.

2 (31m 1s):
Wow. She's, she's very upset and she's a very serious legal scholar. Wow, I I'm so impressed. I'm so impressed. She, it would only be better if she were wearing her smart people glasses that she sometimes puts on in committee hearings to look like not an idiot. Meanwhile, representative Dan Goldman, he's doing the same routine. They just don't have the facts. They don't have the facts. I don't know why they decided to do a joint appearance. Dan Goldman and Jared Moskowitz on M-S-N-B-C, but this looks like an outtake from, from waiting for Gau, like a really bad production. I I don, this is really weird casting, here we go.

13 (31m 33s):
This is a bogus sham impeachment with no evidence whatsoever. And the notion that

2 (31m 40s):
Like Penn and tell over here

13 (31m 41s):
To move forward for some sort of procedural reason is completely bunk. The Biden administration has been way more cooperative than they need to be and certainly far more cooperative than Donald Trump was when he provided zero documents to the congressional impeachment inquiry in 2019. The administration has provided witnesses a hundred thousand and more documents. The problem here is not that they don't have the materials, the problem here is that they don't have any facts to support their allegations of any wrongdoing by President Biden.

2 (32m 16s):
Remember Dan Goldman was one of the lead lawyers in the impeachment inquiry into Donald Trump. Turnabout is fair play. Democrats naturally are now suggesting that any attempt to impeach Biden is the insurrection e it's an insurrection. So what was it when you did it twice with, with Donald Trump and claimed that he was a tool of the Russians. Here it was Representative Jim McGovern of Massachusetts doing this routine.

14 (32m 37s):
This inquiry has nothing to do with Joe Biden. It's about the Republican party and how radicalized and extreme they become. They are allergic to truth and transparency. Republicans say this is not about a preordained outcome. It is they are going to try to impeach President Biden despite the fact that there's no evidence against him at all. Trump sent a violent MAGA mob here to the Capitol to reverse the election results and certify that he won even though he lost what they couldn't do on January 6th. They wanna do what this extreme political stump. They have contempt for our democracy. They want to finish the job.

2 (33m 18s):
They've contempt for the democracy because they wanna impeachment inquiry into, I mean, that's part of the actual system. It's part of the actual system. Again, Democrats used it twice. Meanwhile, representative Jasmine Crockett of Texas Democrat, she's going even further. She says Republicans are domestic enemies that if you launch an impeachment inquiry into the President, you're a domestic enemy. I wonder what that, what does that mean when Democrats do it to Trump twice.

15 (33m 41s):
And right now we know that they're continually trying to tear us down from within. When we swore our oath, we swore our oath to protect against enemies sworn and domestic. And let me tell you something. Those of us that serve on Oversight, especially those of us that are specifically Democrats, I feel like we are constantly fighting domestic enemies and no one should feel that way. The American people should be outraged right now, outraged

2 (34m 9s):
Domestic enemies, anybody who opposed them as a traitor. They're traitors. We're gonna fight tyranny by calling all of our opponents traitors and domestic enemies. That's gonna go amazingly well. Again, it's very hard to make the case also that your guy, Joe Biden, is being unfairly targeted by the House Republicans when I kind of noticed that Jack Smith is unfairly targeting Donald Trump in extraordinary ways. There's an excellent article by Jason Willick over at the Washington Post talking about Jack Smith's prosecution of Trump and more about the timeline of Jack Smith prosecution of Trump In. other words, he's accelerating the timeline. Why? Why does that timeline have to be accelerated? Why? The answer is he wants Donald Trump convicted before the election.

2 (34m 50s):
Why would he wanna do that? 'cause he wants Joe Biden to be reelected. We'll get to that momentarily

Stop Box USA (34m 54s):
first. If you own a firearm, you need to check out StopBox USA. They just introduced the StopBox Pro. This new safe. It's the most reliable, secure place for your firearm. The StopBox Pro is larger, stronger, more versatile, crafted from durable glass reinforced polycarbonate. A BS is not just tough, it's smart. You don't wanna be fumbling with keys or electronic codes. In high stress situations, the StopBox Pros patented hand gesture code lock allows quick intuitive access without batteries or electronics. They understand the critical balance between security and accessibility. That's why the StopBox Pro is designed to be low profile and portable. Whether you're at home or whether you're traveling, your firearm remains concealed, secure, but readily accessible. StopBox Pro has an expanded range of 81 combination possibilities, making it more customizable than ever. Plus an enhanced surface texture gives you a better grip and the improved, improved locking mechanism is a breeze to operate. So I have a lot of small kids at home and we also own firearms and we need access to those firearms for safety. So I rely on StopBox USA, and you should too. Don't compromise on safety and accessibility. Visit StopBox USA dot com, use promo code Ben for 10% off your order. Experience the peace of mind that StopBox brings. That Box USA dot com. Use promo code Ben for 10% off your order.

2 (35m 60s):
Also, faith Moore, Andrew Klaban's talented daughter, has written a new rendition of the age old Christmas Classic Christmas Karol. Except this time it's with a K. It's a modern twist on the story of Ebenezer Scrooge except for the female protagonist. In a world where Boss babes are championed at the expense of family faith is making the case that having what matters is far better than having it all. Christmas. Karol now available to order, order yours on Amazon or wherever you get your books today. Okay, meanwhile, as we are talking about Democrats are claiming that it's totally unfair, wrong, horrifying for Republicans to open an impeachment inquiry into Joe Biden. Meanwhile, Jack Smith is doing whatever he can to get Donald Trump arrested and put in jail before the election. Jason Willick has a really good piece over the Washington posts about this. He says There are real legal problems with special counsel Jack Smith's election interference case against Donald Trump.

2 (36m 43s):
The former president's effort to overturn the 2020 election was despicable, but political lying isn't generally a crime. Smith's case, thus must rely on some of the Vegas laws in the federal penal code, applying them in untested ways. But let's say you disagree, you think Trump's post-election behavior was clearly criminal and President Biden's DOJ had no choice as a matter of law, but to indict him for it. Two recent developments in the case should nonetheless undermine the fiction that Smith is an apolitical prosecutor. Smith sought a pretrial gag order against Trump that would've limited so much of the candidate's political speech that it had to be successively narrowed by two courts. Now in a filing at the Supreme Court, Smith has all but announced that his prosecutorial timeline is controlled by the 2024 general election where Trump is likely to be a candidate. Starts with the gag order of litigation.

2 (37m 23s):
In September, Smith asked for startling restrictions on Trump's right to object to his own prosecution. He demanded that Trump be barred from disparaging and inflammatory statements about Smith or the judicial system. Most astonishing, the special counsel suggested Trump should be barred from blaming Biden for the prosecution. Essentially muzzling a major line of criticism against the administration. Trump wants to unseat Judge Tanya Chut kind appointed by Obama clearly leaned toward the prosecution in this case, but the gag order was significantly narrow than the one Smith saw then last Friday, a three Judge appellate panel composed entirely of Obama and Biden appointees had to even narrow that gag order. Again, what Smith wanted was a dramatic violation of free speech principles against Donald Trump.

2 (38m 4s):
But that brings us to point number two, which is the fast track. So Smith filed a motion on Monday to bypass the normal appellate process and fast track the Trump trial based on what can only be described as a political timetable. Says Willick. Trump claims he has immunity from prosecution because he was performing official Presidential duties when he tried to overturn the 2020 election and because the Senate acquitted him in his 2021 impeachment trial. The claims are likely wrong, but they do raise novel legal issues. But the problem for Smith is that the trial can't be completed until you actually solve the issues. Chadd can denied. Trump's immunity claim is Trump has now appealed to the DC circuit, but Smith is going directly to the Supreme Court. Why exactly is he doing that?

2 (38m 46s):
What is the compelling reason that this thing has to be done right this very instant? Here's what Smith says, quote, vindicating the public interest in this case requires immediate resolution of the immunity question to permit the trial to occur on an appropriate timetable. If appellate review of the decision below were to proceed through the ordinary process in the Court of appeals, the pace of review may not result in a final decision for many months. Even if the decision arrives sooner, the timing of such a decision might prevent this court from hearing and deciding the case this term. So as Willick points out, the argument is totally circular. At no point does Smith explain why this thing has to be decided right now. Who cares? Who caress? Let's say it goes to the appellate court and let's say it takes months. Then let's say it goes to the Supreme Court and takes months and now it's 2025.

2 (39m 26s):
What is Smith's big rush? Smith doesn't say what he means if the justices don't take the case. Now, the chances of completing a trial before the 2024 election will go down. If Trump has not tried and convicted by the election, the chances of Biden winning will take a hit. That's the whole point, and everyone can see it when Trump complains that his case has been politicized. There's a lot more evidence to that effect than to the claim that there is a political motivation behind investigating the Biden corruption scandal. Okay, meanwhile, the latest on Claudine Gathe president, the apparently invulnerable president of Harvard University. So the Harvard Crimson has now come out and suggested that she did In fact violate academic integrity good for the Harvard Crimson.

2 (40m 8s):
That's a shocker. Now once Harvard law, the Crimson is a very newspaper according to Mediaite. In an article detailing the allegations against Gay, the Crimson noted it in independently reviewed the published allegations and concluded that gay's work appeared to quote, violate Harvard's current policies around plagiarism and academic integrity. The newspaper has been generally defensive of Claudine gay, but the Crimson details the allegations and says that she pretty obviously violates standards that students would be bound by. Meanwhile, this brings about, again, what we talked about yesterday on the show, the final argument against getting rid of clouding gay, which is she's a black lady, and so any criticism of her is racist. The person best positioned to articulate this criticism is another mediocre but highly placed person who has been elevated because of her race and because of her intersectional status.

2 (40m 58s):
Nicole Hannah Jones somehow touted as some sort of valuable historian despite the fact that her histories are entirely wrong, biased, and quite disgusting actually morally. Here she was yesterday explaining this is a racist campaign against Claudine gay. Of course, of course everything is a racist campaign.

16 (41m 15s):
She is being singled out as someone who is only surviving because of her race. What did you make of that?

17 (41m 24s):
Well, it's racist. I mean, we have, no one has produced a shred of evidence that shows that the sole qualification that President Gay had was that she is a black woman. That's insulting. It defies logic and the fact that of those presidents who all came under intense scrutiny that only one has been called out as a so-called diversity or affirmative action higher just speaks to what black women in this country have gone through historically and continue to go through every day. She's clearly qualified,

2 (42m 2s):
She's clearly qualified. Nicole Hannah Jones, one of the least qualified historians ever, and yet she was offered like a tenured position, university of North Carolina. Then she turned it down and she went to a historically black college and university. She's been made sort of the face of the New York Times by the fact she's not done a work for them for a couple of years. It's pretty astonishing. By the way, it's worth noting that if Claudine Gay had been fired, she would not be the first Harvard president to be fired. Lawrence Summers, you'll recall, was ousted from his position as president of Harvard University. This happened while I was actually at Harvard. He was ousted from that position for the great crime of suggesting that perhaps underrepresentation of women in the hard sciences was due to both underperformance on testing and also lack of interest.

2 (42m 42s):
Ooh, no. That was so discriminatory that he had to be fired for it. Meanwhile, clouding gays like genocide against Jews depends on the context and everybody's like, well, she is a black lady. I guess we have to keep her. It it, it really is truly amazing stuff and continues to be truly amazing stuff. But again, clouding gay cannot go for the same reason that DEI cannot go. It is the entire reason for a higher education. Now, the perversity of higher education has never been at Higher pitch, and frankly, I'm kind of pleased that they're keeping cloudy gay because I would prefer that they don't again, have the fig leaf of firing the president like over at UPenn. Donors can now feel assuaged that maybe their concerns have been hurt. They can't feel that way at Harvard. So hopefully people continue to pull their money from Harvard University and other major universities that mirror that same DEI, diversity, equity and inclusion nonsense that have become part and parcel of the indoctrination course at all of our top level institutions.

2 (43m 35s):
Arnie, in one second, we'll get to the update on Ukraine. It looks like the Biden administration may be starting to finally cave on some border related measures.

Genucel (43m 41s):
First, I've got a Holiday gift idea that's sure to make you the hero of the season. Now we all know the holidays can be a little bit hectic. The shopping, cooking, never ending list of all the things to do. This is why you need the gift of genu Sell skincare from now until Christmas. Genu sell's most popular package has a special discount. Just for my listeners at Genucel dot com slash Shapiro, treat yourself and your loved ones to the absolute best skincare in the world. These troubling forehead wrinkles, fine line skin redness, sagging jawline, all that disappears right before your eyes with genus cell's most popular collection genus cell promises immediate effect, you'll see results in less than 12 hours guaranteed, or your money back. Plus, included in every most popular package is your free high hyaluronic acid serum for skin hydration. For that youthful appearance, Genucel has sent a ton of product to the office. People are loving it again. My family's been using Genucel products for like a decade. At this point, you deserve to look and feel your best this Holiday season. Head on over to Genucel dot com slash Shapiro and get this incredible Holiday discount. Every order today is instantly upgraded to free express shipping. That's genu sell.com/ Shapiro today. Again, genu sell.com/ Shapiro to get started.

2 (44m 44s):
Meanwhile, as we've been discussing for at least a couple of weeks at this point, the Biden administration wants this giant check signed to Ukraine and Israel and Taiwan and a little bit for the border, but no actual changes in policy at the border. Well, they've been trying this line for a while here that if Republicans don't just sign off on a clean Ukraine bill, it's because they love Putin and it isn't working. They continue to push the line, but again, that dog is not hunting. Here's Hakeem Jeffries, the House minority leader.

18 (45m 10s):
If an agreement is reached, do you believe the speaker will put it on the floor?

19 (45m 14s):
That remains to be seen because the Pro Putin caucus of the House Republican conference is extreme. It's loud and it's growing. It's led by Marjorie Taylor Greene and Jim Jordan on the inside and on the outside. It's led by Donald Trump and Tucker Carlson. And it seems increasingly clear that this pro Putin caucus would like to see Vladimir Putin win in Ukraine, which would be bad for America's national security, which is why it's an open question as to whether House Republicans are serious at all about funding the Ukrainian war efforts.

2 (45m 54s):
Okay, again, that's, that dog isn't gonna hunt because Republicans are already like shore. We just want you to actually secure the border. Well now send a negotiators. According to the Wall Street, Journal have moved closer to striking a broad deal on changes to US border policy after the White House offered significant concessions to win Republican support for separate legislation, further funding Ukraine in the war against Russia, a deal would mark a breakthrough on an issue that is Roiled Washington for decades. With the current talks driven by the record number of migrants crossing the southern border and GOP lawmakers decision to tie new aid to Kiev, to changes in immigration policy. While Democrats are criticizing that linkage, many are signaling in recent days, they would be willing to make such a trade-off that White House offer includes creating a new expulsion power at the border that would allow the government to turn away asylum seekers without letting them claim asylum.

2 (46m 36s):
Democrats have proposed, allowing that new expulsion authority to be used only of certain thresholds are hit like daily illegal border crossings. Democrats have also offered to create a requirement that some asylum seekers be held in immigration detention for the duration of their hearings. That wasn't know whether the new requirement would apply to migrant families or only single adults. It would also raise the initial threshold. Asylum seekers must meet in a screening interview and expand the government's rapid deportation authority to be used at nationwide rather than just at the border. Senator James Langford of Oklahoma said, we're gonna have to hustle, but it's still possible. There's still days in the calendar. Representative Don Bacon of Nebraska, he said, we're close to an agreement. Not sure they're we're there totally but close. Now, again, these are major concessions from Joe Biden over the border, and frankly, we should continue to fund Ukraine so that they don't actually collapse under the weight of a, a new Russian invasion, for example.

2 (47m 24s):
And we should fund Israel in its battle against Kamala and we should fund Taiwan so that they are armed like a porcupine against China. Like all that stuff is good stuff. Getting a bunch of border concessions from the Biden administration is a big Republican win. And that, that, again, can only be had if a deal gets cut here. So, you know, again, kudos to the Republicans for standing strong on this particular provision. And Democrats, you know, they're, they're seeing the light at least a little bit. Meanwhile, on the economy, the Federal Reserve is sending some kind of strange mixed signals. They're leaving interest rates steady. They're not changing the interest rates. We, we expected that because the inflation rate has been coming down and the economy has been slowing, but they're also signaling that they may start to lower the interest rates as early as next year, and they might do it as much as three times.

2 (48m 11s):
So that is obviously causing the stock market to jump because people are now assuming that that means when the new money flows in, the stock prices are gonna go up because whatcha gonna do with new money flowing into the system. If you don't know what to do with it, you shove it in the stock market. So get in now and get in early would be sort of the idea. Now, Warren Buffett is thinking the opposite. Warren Buffett is thinking there are no new business starts. Tossing money at the American economy has not In fact generated massive growth. It's not a question of the fluidity of cash in the American economy right now. It's a question of who's willing to invest in a long-term growth project in the United States when the political situation is so rife with chaos when it feels as though the entire working community is shot through with bad employees.

2 (48m 55s):
Like it's harder to start a business now than it has been at any time in the recent past, and without people starting new businesses and coming up with new products and new services. That's the stuff that generates economic growth, not government spending. And so the stock market may continue to rise because again, where are you gonna put your money if there's more money in the system? But that does not necessarily spell economic health. So the D the Dow Jones Industrial hit an all time high because they were cheering progress on inflation and they're seeing the possibility that again, monetary policy's gonna get looser next year. Whether that soft landing is going to now materialize in a way that does not mean economic stagnation is anybody's guess. The definition of soft landing is gonna be what's in question.

2 (49m 35s):
A soft landing, presumably according to the Biden administration, would mean just avoiding a formal recession. But if they mean they're gonna avoid stagnation, I have serious doubts. According to founder of SAM Consulting and former Fed Economist, the soft landings in the bag inflation has come down for several months. Recession calls are coming off the table. Barring any other catastrophe, the economy has done the impossible. Joseph Labora, chief economist at SNBC, Nico Security said recent history suggests a March, 2024 rate cut is happening. The future's market agrees. Investors are betting on a 75% percent chance the federal slash rates in the first three months of next year. Presumably, that would also be political, an attempt to inject new liquidity into the economy in advance of the election, so as to increase a feeling of economic health going into election 2024.

2 (50m 20s):
And then Biden gets to brag about economic record or something. Again, I remain highly suspicious at the idea that you can have stagnating wages for full on two years, that you can inject this much money into the economy and then have overall inflation that in terms of, for example, mortgages is up 90% since 2020, and that you can somehow come out the other end with a healthy economy. I just think that's a very, very difficult thing to, to actually expect at this point. Okay, in just one second, we'll bring you the latest from the Israel Kamas War. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

21 (51m 2s):
As, a major research institution, Arizona State. University offers the most online bachelor's degree programs along with world class faculty and dedicated support Discover. Why A SU is ranked number one in innovation for nine consecutive years. Tap to learn more.