0 (0s):
Florida Governor Ron DeSantis suspends a George Soros backed prosecutor for failing to prosecute crime. Disney gets cold cocked by the market, and Bidenomics is the New Coke of economics programs. I'm Ben Shapiro. This is The Ben. Shapiro Show.

ExpressVPN (16s):
This show is sponsored by ExpressVPN. It's time to stand up against Big tech protector data ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (21s):
Well, there are some politicians who say they're gonna do the thing and then there's some politicians who actually do the thing. Well, Ron DeSantis continues to do the thing, at least where he has the ability to in the state of Florida. And yet another headline that is going to make the New York Times go nuts. The headline today, DeSantis Suspends second Elected Prosecutor in Florida. So what exactly happened here? Well, the Governor has the ability to suspend certain public officials for failing to do their job. And yesterday Governor DeSantis suspended the top state prosecutor in Orlando. He accused her of incompetence and neglective duty for what he characterized as lenience against violent criminals. There's a 40 page report from the governor's office demonstrating her lack of prosecuting crime. She, of course, is a George Soros backed prosecutor. She's somebody who is in favor of essentially decriminalizing crime, and here was the Governor announcing her suspension yesterday.

3 (1m 8s):
Monique Worre's, administration of criminal justice in the Ninth Circuit has been clearly and fundamentally derelict so as to constitute both neglect of duty and incompetence. The policies or practices listed in our executive order suspending her con that constitutes the grounds of suspension are as follows, one pattern or practice to avoid minimum mandatory sentences for gun crimes pattern or practice to avoid minimum mandatory sentences for drug trafficking offenses. Pattern of practice, allowing juvenile offenders to avoid serious charges and incarceration altogether, pattern or practice to avoid valid and applicable sentencing enhancements.

3 (1m 51s):
Pattern or practice limiting charges for child pornography. Had her practice for seeking withhold withholding of adjudication in situations not permitted under Florida law.

0 (2m 3s):
Now, super boring, right? Super, except this is the stuff that actually moves the ball forward in terms of making people's lives better in places like Orlando. Because the fact is that the place where she presided, which would be the ninth Circuit in Florida, had a as percentage dropped of cases like non-prosecution cases. 42% of the referrals that were made to her office were then dropped by her office, 42%, four in 10. And so Governor DeSantis says, well, that's literally not doing your job. Your job is to prosecute crime. Now, the way the media play this is of course that it's a partisan hit job quote. The move was the governor's latest aggressive use of executive power against local officials of the opposing political party. So just to be clear, it's really bad when Governor DeSantis decides to fire a prosecutor in Orlando for failing to prosecute crime.

0 (2m 47s):
That's it. That's a misuse of executive power to go after an opposing political official. When you are the president of the United States and your Department of Justice goes after the person who's currently leading the primaries in the opposing party over crimes, that when done by members of your own party were completely exonerated and whitewashed. When that happens, that's just good law enforcement. So when Merrick Garland goes after Donald Trump good law enforcement, when Ron DeSantis fires the prosecutor for not doing her job, political hit job. According to our wonderful media, DeSantis suspended Monique Warrell, the elected state attorney of Florida's ninth judicial Circuit, which includes orange and o OSHA counties and cited as reasons her handling of three cases and a low overall incarceration rate. Among other things.

0 (3m 27s):
This is the second time in a year that DeSantis has done this. But to be fair, this also happens to be period in which a bunch of Prosecutors got put in place who don't prosecute crime. In fact, things have gotten so bad on crime that hilariously enough, a DC council person yesterday literally suggested that the National Guard be called into Washington DC to stop crime, which is hilarious because you'll remember that Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas rode an op-ed in the middle of Riot summer 2020 suggesting that maybe the National Guard needed to be called in to to quell riots. And this ended with the firing of the op-ed editor of the New York Times for even daring to run a piece suggesting that thing. Now you have DC council members who are suggesting the same thing about Washington DC itself.

0 (4m 8s):
DeSantis said that they had charged cases in this particular district in ways that would avoid all of the mandatory minimum sentences for both gun and drug trafficking crimes. They allowed juveniles to avoid serious charges or incarceration. He said Prosecutors have a certain amount of discretion about which cases to bring and which not to bring. This state attorney has abused that discretion, has an effectively nullified certain laws in the state of Florida. The Governor then appointed Andrew Bain, a judge from the same judicial circuit to take war's place world can appeal her suspension to the Republican controlled state Senate or go to the Florida Supreme Court. Unlikely that she, she's going to win that case. She will be the new M S N B C hero of the day because that is the way that this works. If you do not perform your job or if you disrupt the system like a Tennessee state legislator who just decides to lead a quasi riot into the middle of the Tennessee State legislature, then M S N B C will make you a hero if then you are stripped of certain legislative privileges.

0 (4m 60s):
Here was the Orlando State attorney deposed suggesting that the big problem here is that the cops gave DeSantis the info, right? That the cops are the problem because the cops actually went to the governor's office and they like, you know, we're referring all these crimes and none of none of them are getting prosecuted. Just the cops are the bad guys. See where normal people come from? The cops are the good guys and the criminals are the bad guys.

4 (5m 19s):
I also wanna point out that law enforcement has played a big role in giving the Governor the information that he has tasked for to support a suspension. Why? Well, I'll tell you why. Because when I ran, I promised law enforcement accountability. And since I have become state attorney, we prosecuted Jonathan Mills, a serial terrorist on the Paramore community, and he went to jail under my administration and the Florida Order of Police was pissed about it,

0 (5m 55s):
Okay? The chorus of is in the background I can only assume are her political allies. It is worth noting here that she let out of jail people who went on to commit violent crimes. When was Dayton Veal? A 28 year old man killed by Orlando Police Officer Saturday after he had shot and critically injured to other officers on Friday night. Veal had posted bond earlier this year after being charged with sexual battery of a 14 year old girl. And this is the kind of person that Whirl was letting outta prison. The other cases involved a man who shot and kills his pregnant girlfriend after having been released while facing charges, including carrying a concealed firearm on school property and a man who's convicted of armed robbery and sentenced to 51 weeks in jail as a youthful offender war. Then went on in this press conference to talk about how Ron DeSantis was destroying democracy because democracy is where you get elected to a prosecution position and then refuse to prosecute.

4 (6m 39s):
He needed to get back in the media in some positive way that would be red meat for his base and he will have accomplished that today. He will be in the news nationally and internationally for the individual who has single-handedly destroyed democracy in the state of Florida.

0 (6m 60s):
Okay? And, and then she continued by suggesting of course that DeSantis is what she called a weak dictator, which is weird since he just fired. So either he's a strong dictator who just fired you or he's a, he's a weak guy who didn't fire you. It's kind of weird to be a, a weak dictator by the way. She finished this press conference by putting up her fist like Antifa Power, which is just a great way for a prosecutor to go,

4 (7m 21s):
I am your duly elected state attorney for the ninth Judicial Circuit and nothing done by a weak dictator can change that.

0 (7m 34s):
Well, I mean it did change that you're no longer the state prosecutor. So I mean there, there, there is that. So again, Ron DeSantis doing the things in Florida that are necessary for people in Florida to live a a better life. This is the part of the DeSantis campaign that has been so far kind of lacking, is the fact that DeSantis is actually very good at like the basics of governing in the state of Florida. Meaning when a bridge gets taken out by a hurricane, that thing is back up within days like the highways work here, the police are able to do their jobs here. When a prosecutor fails to do her job, she gets fired in the state of Florida, right? That bread and butter kind of stuff is the reason that DeSantis is very popular in the state of Florida. All of the fighting of wokeness, all of the sort of controversial policy positions that DeSantis has taken on top of that, that that's sort of the icing on the cake.

0 (8m 17s):
But the cake is that DeSantis is actually very good at governing, and this is something that Republican voters ought to think about going forward when it comes time to vote in primaries. Is, is Donald Trump going to learn the lessons of his first presidency and is he then going to be good at the bread and butter kind of stuff or is it just gonna be a repeat of the first presidency in which he actually didn't do any of the bread and butter kind of stuff? It was kinda the people around him doing all of that and he tweeted a lot because if you actually wish to see the left lose, the thing that you actually need is for the right to be good at the actual business of governing know how to wield power in effective ways. DeSantis is doing that in the state. He's not the only one, right? Brian Kemp in Georgia is very good at at the effective use of power. Glenn Youngin in Virginia seems to be using Powerwall, but DeSantis, he's using it in a very powerful way in the state of Florida.

0 (8m 60s):
That's something again that should factor into how Republicans consider voting in a primary because it turns out being president isn't just about what you say, it's about what you are able to do. And very often Donald Trump's defense to mist staffing. His administration is that he was betrayed. Well, you know, it's a great way to not be betrayed is to staff your administration properly in the first place in the way that you see fit. So either you think that Trump learns and he's gonna get better on the job the second time around, or you have doubts. We'll get to more on this in just one second because Disney is now paying the price for the woke cultural battles they've been fighting. We'll get to that momentarily first.

Pure Talk (9m 31s):
You know how companies looking out for you and they actually upgrade your service and don't charge you for it. This is great news for new and current Pure Talk customers. Pure Talk just added data to every plan and includes a mobile hotspot with no price increase whatsoever. If you've considered Pure Talk before but you haven't made the switch, take a look again for just 20 bucks a month, you'll get unlimited talk tax and now 50% more five G a plus their new mobile hotspot. This is the reason I love Pure Talk there, veteran owned, they only hire the best customer service team located right here in the United States of America. Most families are saving almost a thousand dollars a year while enjoying the most dependable five G network in the country. Remember, you vote with how you spend your cash. So stop supporting companies that hate your guts when you go to Pure Talk dot com slash superior. Save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage because you know they actually value you. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Pure Talk is wireless for Americans by Americans. I've been using Pure Talk for all of my business phone calls, which shows you how good I think their coverage is. 'cause you know, I do business a lot and so I rely on Pure Talk network to be good. And it is. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro, save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage right now. Pure Talk, again, wireless for Americans by Americans

4 (10m 32s):
. Okay, meanwhile, Disney is taking it directly in the teeth. The New York Times, of course, is attributing this to larger market forces, but the reality is that Disney has completely blown out a large segment of its user base. I can tell you that Disney has lost thousands of dollars from my family alone, right? Normally in a given year, I would take my family to Disneyland over here at Disney World over here in Florida. I would take them there at least three times probably over the course of the year. And I have a fairly large family with like cousins and everything. So we're talking like thousands of dollars that Disney has lost just from my family and obviously they're a massive bill, multi, multi-billion dollar corporation, but there are a lot of people who are like me.

0 (11m 6s):
There are a lot of people who are not subscribing to Disney Plus, even though I otherwise would just to watch the Star Wars content because Disney has decided to spit in the eye of its consumer base and obviously that was highlighted by their conflict for no reason whatsoever with the state of Florida. Over the question of sexual indoctrination of children. Well now the New York Times reporting that Robert ER's urgent need to Overhaul Disney came into sharp Relief on Wednesday. Disney's streaming operation lost a $512 million in the most recent quarter, bringing total streaming losses since 2019 when Disney Plus was introduced to more than $11 billion, Disney plus lost roughly 11.7 million subscribers worldwide in the three months that ended July 1st for a new total of 146.1 million.

0 (11m 49s):
All the decline came from a low priced version of Disney Plus in India. They basically inflated their numbers by getting a bunch of people to sign up for, you know, the Star package in India and then everybody basically dropped off because Disney lost a bid. Renew the expensive rights to Indian, primarily cricket match matches, excluding Disney, excluding India. Disney Plus gained 800,000 subscribers primarily overseas, but that rate of growth is not going to make up for the kind of cost that they have been experiencing due to streaming. So Iger is now shifting the focus at Disney plus away from Brisk subscriber growth, which requires those big marketing campaigns. Instead, Disney has been trying to make more money from Disney plus subscribers. It already has by increasing the price. Another hefty price increases on the way. Starting on October 12th, the ad free version will cost $14.

0 (12m 29s):
Hulu, which is controlled by Disney, will begin charging 18 bucks for ad free access that's up from 15 bucks as an incentive, Disney will begin selling a new streaming package ad free access to both Disney Plus and Hulu for 20 bucks a month, starting on September 6th. Now again, one of the things that's happening here is that a lot of prospective customers, people like me have been dropping off. So it's really lowering their growth curve. An 11% increase in profitability at Disney's theme park divisions, despite weakness at Walt Disney world in Florida, allowed the company to salvage the quarter to a degree, but they're really getting clocked and other theme park operators in Florida have seen attendance declines historically when budgets get tight, families cut back on expensive trips to Disney world. But it's not just that.

0 (13m 10s):
Again, there is a political aspect to this, and here's the thing, A marginal move on a major company makes a big difference. Everybody assumes the giant, giant companies run extraordinary profit margins, and that's not true. It's not true. The profit margins, particularly in the media business, can be extremely slim. And so if you dinging the profit margin by a certain percentage, if you alienate a certain percentage of your core customer base, that has really outsized ramifications for the broader market. Because remember valuation when it comes to public markets is always a multiple of the actual cash flow or the actual EBITDA of the company. What that means is that if a company say, has a a gross income, a the the gross that they take in is a billion dollars a year.

0 (13m 50s):
That company's not valued at a billion dollars on the public market. It's gonna get valued at like 10 billion, $15 billion on the public markets depending on what industry and sector the company is in. So that means that if you dinging that company by, I say $50 million And, it goes down from a billion to 950 million. If you do that, then the multiple, let's say it's at a 10 level, is going to go down concomitantly, right? That 50 million is going to end up looking more like 500 million when it comes to the actual market cap of the company. So you can actually seriously dinging a company in the public markets simply by alienating a certain segment of your customer base. And that's exactly what Disney has done by getting into this bleep fight with Governor DeSantis, the state of Florida and more broadly parents across the country.

0 (14m 31s):
And they're only gonna get worse, by the way. I mean the fact that they're now doing like Woke Snow White is so obs absurd. I don't, I don't know what they're thinking over there or why they think that this is a growth area. Who are they catering to seriously? Are they catering to the Chinese market? It used to be that Disney's that the big rap against Disney is that they were catering to the Chinese market by filming like Mulan in Chong Chang and ignoring the slave labor of Muslims. And at least you could make the case on a market level that they were trying to appeal to, you know, the giant Chinese market. But when they're deciding to make woke Snow White with like non dwarves as the dwarves, who exactly are they appealing to? It's not the Chinese market. What exactly are they doing? And the answer is that they have been victims of institutional capture by their own people.

0 (15m 13s):
And I assume that as the market starts to decline, we'll talk about the economy momentarily, that as the market starts to decline, Disney is gonna have to do what every other company is doing and they're gonna have to get rid of their loss leaders. And guess what? Wokeness is a loss leader. It is a massive loss leader. We're gonna get to more on this in just one second.

Policy Genius (15m 27s):
First, really, really important for you to have life insurance. Important for me to have life insurance. I have, I know hundreds of millions of dollars in life insurance on me for my company, for my family, and all the rest. But you need life insurance too because God forbid something happens to you. Your family is reliant on your income. You don't wanna deprive them both your presence and your income. So you need to go get the life insurance that you require. Policy genius makes it easy to compare life insurance quotes from top companies and find your lowest price. Lemme tell you from personal experience, really good to get that. Life insurance gives you a sense of relief because at least God forbid something happens to you, you now know that your loved ones will be covered. Your loved ones deserve that financial safety net and you deserve a smarter way to find and buy it. Head it over to policygenius.com/ Shapiro or click the link in the description, Get your free life insurance quote. see how much you could save With Policy Genius, you can find life insurance policy starting just 25 bucks per month for a million dollars in coverage. Some options offer coverage in as little as we can avoid those unnecessary medical exams. Policy geniuses, licensed agents, they work for you, not the insurance companies. That means they don't have an incentive to recommend one insurer over another so you can actually trust their guidance. No added fees, your personal information remains private. Head on over to policygenius.com/ Shapiro to get started. That's policygenius.com/ Shapiro

0 (16m 30s):
Okay, meanwhile again, the economic lights here are blinking red things are not going to be, everyone is very sanguine about the state of the economy. I'm significantly less sanguine about the state of the economy. I know too many investors who are holding their money in abeyance knowing that the economy is on raise edge. Everyone I talk to right in investment circles and I do a fair share of investing, everyone I'm talking to is holding their money outta the market right now because they don't know which way it's going to go. Well, today the consumer price index came out again and it said, it showed that prices rose 3.2% in July from a year ago. So junior recall was down to 3%, which is still 50% higher than the Fed seeks, right? The Fed wants a 2% rate of increase year on year. That is sort of the Milton Friedman Chicago School idea that you, if you, if you constantly de in inflate the currency and deflate value, that if you do that, it's going to spur a certain level of comm, consumer spending And it is gonna keep the wheels churning and all the rest of it.

0 (17m 21s):
I'm sort of a Vienna school guy in, in the sense that I, I don't actually believe in 2% inflation rates stopped by the Fed. I think we should seek a 0% inflation rate from the Fed and money should be worth what money was worth 10 years ago or 20 years ago, and we should stop inflating away people's savings. But call me a classist. The fact is that 2% is what we have aimed at for years and years and years. Last month, year on year, I came in at 3%. Yeah, that is 50. That is a full 50% higher. Now I know that our minds have now been warped by the fact that we had like 10% inflation for a while there, thanks to supply chain, thanks to Covid and thanks to Joe Biden's inflationary, monetary and fiscal policies. But 3% still way too high. Literally 50% too high. It was supposed to be two, it is three. That was last month and we were told that was awesome.

0 (18m 3s):
Well now it's 3.2% year on year, which means that the rate of increase continues to be too high. Now they're bringing down the rate of increase from 9%, but it's still at 3.2%, which by my calculation, is still more than 50% too high on a monthly basis. Prices ticked up 0.2% between June and July. Economists say that the bump is linked to temporary factors, including rebounding, airline, hotel, and energy prices. They're not likely to erode longer term progress, but I, I don't know what that means. A road longer, like we're not gonna jump back up to 7%, but are we getting back down to 2%? The overall number was also higher because prices are being compared at the rates of increase last July the first month when inflation began to fall after a long climb. But again, that is still a price increase.

0 (18m 43s):
Again, if the curve looks sort of like this, that doesn't mean that here is somehow lower than here. That's not correct. Okay? For those who can't see what I'm doing with my hand here, essentially I'm drawing a curve that at the very beginning looks very steep and then starts to shallow out, but is still increasing. We are now at the shallowed out, but still increasing rate of inflation in the United States. And it still, again, 50% too high push US rum. A US economist at Barclay says, in the grand scheme, we are seeing disinflation and things are moving in the right direction. If you look past the volatile categories, underlying momentum has not changed. However, are we back to where we need to be? Obviously not. This is spurring talk that the federal Reserve is basically going to try to hold out here and not increase the interest rates again.

0 (19m 25s):
But I don't see evidence that the rate is dropping down to 2% without any further action by the federal Reserve. And this is why it seems like the stock market is really volatile right now. It's kinda going up, it's going down, it's kinda sticking around the same generalized level. The reason for that is deep uncertainty about the in impact of the policies that are being pursued right now. Again, when when you look at overall measures of economic health, what you're seeing is business disinvestment. You're seeing mortgage lending dry up. You're seeing those, those rates of interest on new mortgages go way, way, way up. And eventually, eventually when people start losing jobs because the money dries up, that's gonna be a lot of people who start defaulting on debts. And when they start defaulting on debts, banks are gonna take the hit. And when those banks are invested in bonds, that's going to have some pretty significant bleed over effects for the broader economy.

0 (20m 10s):
If Silicon Valley Bank invested too heavily in government bonds at low interest bearing rates and then they got blown out because the higher interest rates that the federal government was offering on its new bonds. But that's 'cause their margins in terms of bonds were were too, they just had too many bonds in their portfolio. Well, as banks actually start to experience significant default, then those bonds that they have in their portfolio are gonna look worse and worse. Right now they're operating. We'll see how that works out for them. Meanwhile, Joe Biden is out there still touting Bidenomics as though it's a big win, despite the fact the American people really, really hate Bidenomics. We'll get to more on that in a second.

get Refunds (20m 43s):
First, innovation Refunds has been helping small businesses that qualify to get a business payroll tax refund through the employee retention credit, also known as the E R C. The E R C is a tax refund for businesses that kept employees on payroll for parts of 2020 and 2021. If you own a business with more than five employees, you could have money waiting to be claimed. Have you ever started your application for the E R C but didn't actually go all the way through it? Well, innovation Refunds team of independent tax attorneys, they specialize in those applications. So you're not gonna have to worry about potential errors or navigating complex i r s guidelines. Let their team guide you through the remaining steps and find out if you're eligible in the first place. Innovation Refunds does not provide tax or legal advice. They work with independent networks of tax professionals and will share information with them to evaluate and process your claims. Go to get Refunds dot com to determine eligibility. If you qualify, you could be on your way to receiving money for your business. There's no upfront charge since they don't get paid unless you get paid. Go to get Refunds dot com or dial 1 8 4 3 Refunds. That's get Refunds dot com or dial 1 8 4 3. Refunds terms and conditions apply. If you paid too much money to the federal government over the past few years, why not? You can get that tax refund After, all money is getting a lot tighter. Go to get Refunds dot com or dial 1 8 4 3 Refunds to get started.

0 (21m 46s):
Okay? Meanwhile, Joe Biden continues to be out there pushing Bidenomics. Bidenomics is another name for failure. So here was Joe Biden trying to push it yesterday. I, it, it is just, it remains incredible to me that this person who, as Matt Tybee says, cannot be trusted not to walk into an airplane propeller or carry a child into a forest as president of the United States.

5 (22m 7s):
The Financial Times in the Wall Street Journal have started to call, started to call my plan Bidenomics initially. I don't think they meant it with great deal of respect, with all due respect for them. Our plan is working. It's working. the economy has grown since I took office. It grew faster in the, in the last quarter than anyone expected. And you know, we created over 13 million brand new jobs since I took office.

0 (22m 35s):
Okay? He, I, I love these stats where he just ignores that covid happened. It's one of my favorite things. Also, if Bidenomics is windmills, we are talking about some of the least productive things on planet Earth, these giant windmills that are spinning behind him. Yeah, Bidenomics is a giant metal fan that chops up eagles. That's, that's pretty much correct. Meanwhile, it, what does Bidenomics mean? It means wasting money on a bunch of pie in the sky nonsense. Including, for example, pushing to block drilling in the United States. So you have an economy where he's constantly talking about blue collar workers taking it on the chin. And here he is basically saying, what if I put all the oil workers out of business on behalf of the climate while Russia, China, India are not cooperating. By the way, China is by far the world's largest producer of carbon emissions.

5 (23m 16s):
There's an enormous opportunity. We're growing the economy. We're in fact, but the, but it's not enough for us to do. We have to change the whole world's attitude

0 (23m 24s):
Change, the whole world's attitude.

5 (23m 25s):
Right now, Russia and China are very, very difficult partners.

6 (23m 28s):
Since you've been in office, you promised no new drilling on federal land or offshore. Can you tell Gen Z that you haven't broken your promise?

5 (23m 37s):
Yes, because the courts overrule me. The court said I couldn't do it. I wanted to stop all drilling on the East coast and the West coast and in the Gulf, but I got, I lost in court, but we're still pushing.

0 (23m 51s):
If he had his way, he would shut down all that drilling, all of it. So all those workers outta jobs, gas prices up. But don't worry, it wouldn't be his fault. It would be the fault of Vladimir Putin in Ukraine if the gas prices go up. That's Bidenomics. When asked, by the way, about concerns that the electrical vehicle push that he's making right now will actually kill jobs in sort of the traditional car industry or in the oil industry. He says, don't worry, out of everything bad comes something good, which is cold comfort to people who lose their jobs because he's pushing economically inefficient policies.

5 (24m 19s):
Labor has been always opposed to environmental changes. He's

0 (24m 23s):
Holding a holding the questions on it, it's their

5 (24m 25s):
Future. They're gonna build 550,000 electric charges.

0 (24m 29s):
They're not even trying to hide it. This point all

5 (24m 31s):
Across America, my mom used to say, out of everything bad, something good will come. If you look hard enough for it, there's an enormous opportunity.

0 (24m 40s):
Oh, goodness gracious. They, they're not even trying to hide the fact that he's senile and he literally holds cards with like little tips on them going into easy press conferences with friendly reporters. There's a reason why this guy's failing in the poll, by the way. I know that there are a lot of people who are like, you know, Joe Joe Biden and Donald Trump are running even, which shows Donald Trump's strength. No, it shows Donald Trump's weakness. Any Republican should be beating Joe Biden at this point, and that includes all the Republicans. Okay? It's not just Trump. It should scare Republicans on a generalized level that there is no poll showing a generic Republican up on this tendentious senile old fool. How, how is that po like that? That shows Republican weakness, not Republicans strength. This guy is a terrible president. He's horrible at his job.

0 (25m 20s):
He wanders into the ocean. He's like, this is a person who can barely stand upright. And not only that, he happens to be deeply corrupt as we'll get to in a moment and a terrible person to boot. And Republicans can't run, they can't find anybody who will beat this guy regularly in polls. Like that's kind of amazing to me and shows the, the state of dissatisfaction inside the country for both Republicans and for Joe Biden personally. Kain Jean-Pierre, by the way, is now forced to trott out there and pretend that polls don't count anymore. So I love this. Here's Kain Jean-Pierre pretending that everybody actually likes Joe Biden's economic plans, despite the fact that on the economy 37% of voters actually approve of Joe Biden's handling of the economy

7 (25m 58s):
From the White House perspective. Why is there disparity between the good story, the narrative you think you have to tell and how it's received by the American people?

8 (26m 8s):
So a couple of things, Victor. Look, as we know, polls don't show everything. They don't tell the full story as you just stated. And we have to remember, if you look at where we were back in the fall of 2022 during the midterm elections when the president delivered a historic midterms for, for Democrats, when we think about how as a, as a Democratic president, he delivered a victory that we hadn't seen in decades, right? And he led that messaging throughout those months going into November.

0 (26m 40s):
Okay? So here is the thing. Nobody likes Joe Biden and the corruption problems surrounding Joe Biden are going to get significantly worse. Okay? So yesterday the House of Oversight Committee released a memo showing how much money the Biden family cleared while Joe Biden was vice president of the United States. The answer grand total answer, $20 million. $20 million. That is a lot of money my friends, like that's, that is not piker money. That is serious cash. 8.1 million of those dollars came from China, according to the New York Post. Summing up the memo, state Energy HK is affiliated with Chinese State linked C E F C, China Energy, which partnered with first on Hunter Biden and First Brother James Biden, big guy Joe Biden was supposed to get a 10% cut of the venture.

0 (27m 22s):
And in July, 2017, WhatsApp message Hunter threatened a Chinese associate with his dad's wrath. If the deal was aborted within 10 days, C E F C transferred a hundred grand and then 5 million bucks to Biden linked accounts. According to a 2020 report by Senate committees, the C E F C relationship is still believed to have started in 2015 when Joe Biden was VP that 3 million bucks from State Energy HK was then divided three ways between Hunter Biden, James Biden and Bo Bid. Bo Biden's widow Haley Biden receiving a combined million bucks. The remainder went to Hunter's Business Partners, Rob Walker and James Gier. The latter $5.1 million passed mostly into Hunter's own entity called Owas cco. According to the 2020 Senate report, it hasn't yet been documented in bank records obtained by the house. We have no idea where exactly that money went. Plus, hunter got a 3.16 karat diamond from the C E F C founder Yian Ming.

0 (28m 6s):
In 20 17, 6 0.5 million bucks came from Ukraine Joe. Biden visited Ukraine six times as vp five of them. After Hunter joined Barisma ass Board in April, 2014, he publicly claimed credit for using a billion dollars in USAID to get the prosecutor, Victor Shoken fired. Joe Biden met with Barisma officials at dinners. He participated in a phone call with them according to Hunter Biden's business partner, Deon Archer and Bank records document $3.3 million transferred from Barisma to Hunter Biden and Deon Archer from April 14th, 2014 to October, 2015. I r s whistleblowers testified Hunter and Archer earned $6.5 million total from Barisma through 2019. Russia passed $3.5 million to the Biden family. Then P Biden allegedly met a First Lady of Moscow named Yolina Batina at a DC restaurant in Spring 2014 and April, 2015, while Hunter Biden and Archer were helping her invest in American real estate.

0 (28m 58s):
On March 11th, 2014, three quarters of a million dollars was transferred to Archer. The rest was transferred to a joint account held by Archer and Hunter Biden. Unclear exactly where that money went. $3.1 million came from Romania. Hunter referred a person named Gabrielle po po to a former F B I director Louis free to challenge a corruption case against him. About 3 million bucks ended up transferred by Papo Vichy to Hunter Biden's partner Rob Walker. And $142,000 came from Kazakhstan VP Biden met with a guy named Kenneth Rahe and his associates at DC, cafe Milano in spring 2014 and April, 2015. And then Hunter got a $142,000 car out of it.

0 (29m 38s):
So naturally, Joe Biden, when asked about this sort of corruption scolded, the reporter asking, so here's Peter Ducey asking about all of this. You know, your son's business dealings, you said you knew nothing about them, your son's business dealings. You said that you were not involved. You said your son never made any money from China. You said all these things, they're all lies. What do you have to say?

9 (29m 55s):
There's this testimony now where one of your sons from our business associates is claiming that you were on speaker phone a lot with them talking business. Is that what

5 (30m 5s):
Never talk business? Anybody And I I know you'd have a

9 (30m 8s):
Lousy question. Well, what do you, it's why is that a lousy question?

5 (30m 13s):
Because it's not true.

9 (30m 13s):
Thank you Mr. President so much.

0 (30m 16s):
What what a-hole. I mean, it's, he's such a bad person. Well, that's a lousy question. That's not an answer. Why is it? And and when Peter Ducey says like, what's lousy about the question, he says it's not true. Which part is not true? Which part is not true? All of it. Because we have testimony from Hunter Biden's business partner that it is true. And we know that you are squiring around Hunter Biden, by the way, this whole lie, that Joe Biden does this sort of stuff because he loves his son. So all fired much. I'm just wondering why if you are a, a father who loves his drug adult son who's addicted to crack cocaine and whores, you are giving him access to millions of dollars. Literally, rule number one of having a crack addicted son would be, don't give him access to the credit card because he's addicted to crack.

0 (30m 58s):
I know this is really complex, but it doesn't seem all that complex. Actually, it's, it's absolutely insane to me that Joe Biden gets away with the, it's all about the family routine when pretty clearly dude benefited. And I, I'm just wondering how he didn't benefit at this point. According to the New York Post, Jonathan Turley, he points out that of course, Joe Biden benefited from all of Hunter's Foreign business dealings. How could he not? He says the President's denial of any knowledge of his son's Foreign business dealings have finally been exposed as a total lie. The final line of defense is now that Hunter Biden was selling access to Joe, but It was an illusion. But there's nothing illusory about tens of millions moving to Hunter and other family members.

0 (31m 41s):
Also, all of these claims ignore emails discussing the fact that Hunter and his father used joint accounts to pay for expenses, including how one account was used to pay Joe's taxes. There's Hunter's complaint that he was using half his earnings to support dad. One trusted F b i informant said, in planning a bribe, one Foreign figure was told to avoid direct payments to Joe today, that is as amateurish as a, an envelope of cash. And the Biden's bid in the business of influence pedaling for decades. So apparently if Hunter gets luxury cars and millions of dollars and $20 million goes into the entire family bank account, Joe didn't benefit or receive a bribe. So apparently only if the money went directly into his bank account, would that actually amount to that. That's actually the White House's defense at this point, believe it or not. That is right. That is what they're saying.

0 (32m 21s):
Now, we also know that Joe Biden is apparently worth an estimated $8 million at this point, and that he earned $17.3 million over the four years he was out of office. So how is, how is enriching all of your family members not a form of bribery? I'm just wondering, like if, if I went, if somebody came to me and they're like, I wanna pay you to say untruth, like truly untrue things on your show that you don't actually believe I wanna pay you to do that. The way I'm gonna pay is I'm putting your kids' trust fund. Is that not a form? I mean my kids are young, even if they were of majority, would that not be a form of bribery? I'm just con I'm confused as to how it's not the White House is resting, it's, it's like notice how the goalpost is now, as we say, being punted into the ocean.

0 (33m 3s):
The goalposts were, hunter did nothing wrong then It was, Joe didn't know that Hunter had done anything wrong. Then It was, well, Joe May have known that Hunter did something wrong, but he wasn't involved then It was, well, Joe might have been involved, but no money directly went into his personal wallet in his back pocket. I mean, you've moved pretty dramatically here, I noticed. So the White House put out a memo setting their final goalpost quote today, house Republicans on the oversight committee released another memo full of years old news innuendo and misdirection, but notably missing yet again. Is any connection to President Biden? Well, but I mean there is, he was on the phone calls, he was taking Hunter, his drug derelict of a son, one of the most immoral people in American public life on a plane with him to China to close deals.

0 (33m 46s):
What the hell says the White House House Republicans can't prove President Biden did anything wrong, but they're proving every day they have no vision and no agenda to actually help the American people. Okay, all of this is tiresome and ridiculous in the extreme. Everyone knows it and And it is not going to play in this election cycle. It's just not going to play in this election cycle, especially given the fact the American people don't actually believe that Joe Biden is a kindly old gentleman of great character. They don't. That is largely true since Afghanistan. We'll get to that in just one moment

Balance Of Nature (34m 14s):
. First, I gotta tell you, you know, obviously I'm short on sleep. As I mentioned yesterday on the show, our baby had R S V over the weekend, which meant that we were at the hospital over the weekend. So I'm tired. A lot of kids dog a lot going on. And there's one thing I hate above all things, and that of course is vegetables. Vegetables are terrible. But I have a solution balance of Nature fruits and Veggies. They're a great way to make sure you're getting essential nutritional ingredients every single day. Through balance of Nature, it's advanced cold vacuum process. The vitamins, minerals, and phytonutrients of the fruits and Veggies are preserved. You can get that vital nutrition in each capsule. Balance of Nature is a whole food supplement with no additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticides are added. Sugar, Pure, fruits and Veggies. Those are the things they put in their capsules balance of Nature and a bunch of their product down to the studio for my team to try. Everybody loves it. Producer Jake, that guy hates soybeans like with the fiery passion of a thousand sons. But he loves balance of nature's Fruit and veggie capsules. They make him feel great and they're easy to take to Tulsa Kosher. It means that I can actually testify to the quality of the product for a limited time this summer when he become a preferred customer at Balance of Nature. They're throwing in a free Fruit and Veggies travel set and giving you an additional 25 bucks off your very first order. Go to balance of Nature dot com, use promo code Shapiro for a free travel set and 25 bucks off your first order as a preferred customer. That's balance of Nature dot com promo code Shapiro.

Jeremy's Razors (35m 22s):
Also, are you planning to send your kid off to college this year? Look, I've been on these campuses. These are woke campuses, but we have a great way to remind your kid their true values. And that of course is give them a subscription to Jeremy's Razors. Right now get up to 20% off select razor and men's carrot bundles. Look at all of these things that I hold here. Look at this. This is like a lot of things. Okay, so we have here the charcoal body wash. It smells delightful. It really is. Quality we have right here. Check it out. The shampoo, this shampoo, paraben free. Don't know what paraben is. There is none of it in here. Sulfate free, woke free made right here in the United States. And of course we have this right here, the conditioner, tea tree, argan and peppermint. It does smell absolutely wonderful. It's great. My kids like to use it because it smells so good. This is great stuff and you should handle it with care. And get him a precision five razor with welded steel blades and flip back from her that will groom his face, not him. Help your son escape academia's. Leftist indoctrination by more than just a close shave. Go to jeremy's Razors dot com for major deals. Give Jeremy's back to college. Bundles a full ride today.

9 (36m 24s):
Okay, meanwhile, well, if Joe Biden's entire reelect campaign is gonna be run on the same basis as his election campaign in 2020, which is his high character and great level of care for the American people. He's just a man who caress about you. Remember this was the big pitch in 2020. This is a man who's experienced pain and because he's experienced pain in his life, he understands your pain. It was a really weak Bill Clinton type pitch, but it won because again, Donald Trump is not somebody who tends to feel pain, at least not on his surface.

0 (36m 48s):
The truth is that Trump, when it comes to sort of the common man, actually does feel a lot more for those people than Joe Biden does, like without a doubt. But that was Biden's pitch. That all disappeared with Afghanistan yesterday. The State Department continued to double down on the idea that Joe Biden had done a stellar job in Afghanistan. Here was the State Department spokesperson, Matthew Miller saying that actually It was a phenomenal choice to leave Afghanistan in the way we did

10 (37m 7s):
Respect to the decision making that went into the withdrawal from Afghanistan. That's something that we've spoken to a number of times.

11 (37m 14s):
But what about, go ahead. If you still believe that this is a, this was a success because they have a real hard time when the administration calls this withdrawal a success. Do you still believe It was a success?

10 (37m 23s):
We believe It was the correct policy choice. But again, was it a success? Hold on. We believe It was a correct policy choice, but again, I would never want to quibble with a family member who has suffered such an enormous tragedy. But

11 (37m 32s):
I think it's, I think that

10 (37m 33s):
Word is, I'm gonna move, I'm gonna move on to someone, someone else.

0 (37m 36s):
Oh wait, I'm not gonna quibble with the family member. Don't wanna hear about the family home anymore. We're gonna move on. Moving on. Just moving on. Spokesperson also said that's actually, they've been incredibly transparent about how all of this went down, which is weird since they haven't,

12 (37m 48s):
You think that you've fulfilled your obligations or your, your commitments to, you know, being transparent about,

10 (37m 54s):
I believe we've been incredibly transparent about the actions this department has taken, but with respect to, to requests from the committee, I've seen a number of requests come in. I know we've been in discussions with them, but I'm not, I don't wanna characterize those given that I'm, I I'm just not, I'm, I'm just not sure where Congress is in recess right now. The discussions have obviously slowed down over the recess, so I don't wanna comment in on detail.

0 (38m 18s):
Mm mm You know, I wanna talk for a second about transparency and about the fact that no one trusts the government right now because not only is the government not transparent with you, but the media who are supposed to be the watchdog are not transparent with you so long as the Democrat is in the Oval Office, if a Democrat is in the Oval Office, they're not transparent with you. If a Republican is in the Oval Office, not only are they not transparent with you about the Republican, they're fully non-transparent about all investigations into the Republican. When did all of this happen? It's impossible to think that there was not a ground shift in the way Americans think about their institutions. That was coincident with the rise of Barack Obama. I've talked about this a little bit over the course of the past week. There's a massively important interview over at Tablet Magazine, which is a great website that's worth the read.

0 (38m 58s):
They did an interview with a, a historian named David Garrow, who wrote a Pulitzer Prize winning biography of Martin Luther King. And then in 2017, he had a bi biography of Barack Obama in his early years. And It was called Rising Stars. By all rights, it should have been like a massive hit. This, this book, because it actually uncovered a bunch of stuff about Obama that the media never would've covered. Like for example, the fact that in dreams from my father, which is almost entirely fictionalized, apparently according to David Garrow, that when Barack Obama wrote his first memoir, dreams for my Father, he has an incident where he broke up with a white girlfriend, suppo, supposedly because she couldn't understand why he wanted to get in touch with his black identity. And what actually happened is that she broke up with him because he was covering for raving black antisemites.

0 (39m 38s):
That's what David Garrow uncovered. Media never checked into it, they never found the girlfriend, they never dug it into anything remotely related to Barack Obama. By the way, other revelations included in this book where actual handwritten letters from Barack Obama to one of his girlfriends talking about his, and this is a direct quote, repeatedly fantasizing about making love to men. I mean, that's pretty bombshell kind of stuff. No, I mean, pretty wild and salacious. None of it received virtually any coverage at the time. But why? And the answer is because the media, when Barack Obama rose to the presidency, and as he made that rise, the media decided that they were now the actual pretorian guard. They were always biased to the left, but there's certainly a, a cer like a level of baseline honesty that required them to still report on things.

0 (40m 21s):
And then Barack Obama rose to the level of the presidency and every institution was weaponized on behalf of this man personally. That's actually what happened. The entire comedic institutional structure, for example, said it is forbidden to make jokes about Obama. You cannot make jokes about this absolutely self-obsessed, ridiculous man because he is actually a messianic figure. You remember the Chris Rock said that he's like the country's dad. This is, this is the kind of so comedy out, entertainment out. They were all worshiping at the altar. The media out. And our public institutions also started reflecting everything with regard to Obama. David Samuels of tablet who's interviewing Garry, he said Rising star highlights a remarkable lack of curiosity on the part of mainstream reporters and institutions about a man who almost instantaneously was treated less like a politician and more like the idol of an inter elite cult.

0 (41m 10s):
And it's true, like the entire tech world revolved around Barack Obama. He became like the center of the political universe. Everybody thinks the center of the political universe is Donald Trump, but that's not actually right. The center of the political universe since 2008 has been Barack Obama. Donald Trump is a reaction to Barack Obama. Joe Biden is a reaction to Donald Trump and happens to be the third term of Barack Obama. Since every person in position of major staffing power is a Barack Obama acolyte Barack Obama by, by the way, still resides most of the year in Washington DC. And it's amazing to me that nobody's actually attempted to track down how much does Barack Obama actually talk with all the people who used to work with him and shape policy inside the Biden administration. And again, the corruption of all of our institutions on the back of Barack Obama's personal self obsession is truly an amazing thing.

0 (41m 57s):
So David Garrow, this biographer of Obama, he says in this interview, he has no interest in building the Democratic Party as an institution. I think that's obvious. I don't think he had any truly deep, meaningful policy commitments other than the need to feel and to be perceived as victorious as triumphant. But because all the institutions went into defend Obama mode, that has carried forward to Joe Biden. And here's the thing, they could get away with it when it actually was, when it actually was Barack Obama. 'cause Barack Obama had this sort of messian quality to him, right? He was actually a really good speaker. He was actually a celebrity type, but Joe Biden isn't. And so as that mask has stripped away and as the media have just been demonstrably proved to be members of that interate cult, of course faith in them has absolutely plummeted.

0 (42m 40s):
And of course the country has polarized because the institutions that at least used to have sort of a baseline goal and purpose they had to fulfill, even if there was political bias involved, everyone distrusts those institutions now and for absolutely good reason. And what that also means is it's very easy when an institution fails to immediately attribute it to this sort of inly cult status. Is it failure or is it malice? Now I've said many times that I tried to attribute as much as I can to stupidity rather than malice. But the problem is when malice has been pursued over and over and over again against a particular point of view, at a certain point you start to see that maybe it's not stupidity, maybe it is malice, doesn't mean all of it's malice, but it means it's easy to over attribute to malice rather than to stupidity, which leads to further political polarization.

0 (43m 23s):
And that seems to be what's been happening all over the place institutionally speaking in the United States to really grave effect by the way. Because what it means is that each side is now bouncing off, the other Republicans are reacting to, to anything Democrats say by saying that if Democrats hate it, we must love it, which is a bad idea. And Democrats are reacting to anything that Republicans say by saying that if Republicans like it, we must hate it. All of that was created by the Barack Obama era. This is not Donald Trump's era, this is still Barack Obama's era. We're just living in the aftermath of that era. As I've said many times about Donald Trump, people say that he killed American politics, destroyed American po Donald Trump was not the murderer. Barack Obama was the murderer. Donald Trump is the coroner who stumbled on the body and declared a dead.

0 (44m 4s):
Okay? Meanwhile, we are still experiencing fallout from this Ohio vote. So there is a vote in Ohio to essentially change the state constitution to enshrine amendments in the state constitution to require more than a 60% approval to change the state constitution. That was meant to prevent a, a sort of walk back with regard to abortion law on behalf of those who are pro-abortion in the state of Ohio. That measure failed pretty dramatically. And once again, this demonstrates that Republicans have to pursue victory incrementally. Very often there's this tendency to, to feel like you just gotta go for broke all the time. Going for broke is probably not going to be a successful, is not gonna be a successful tactic. What's hilarious is the Democrats, of course are about to blow it.

0 (44m 46s):
So Democrats have decided that actually this is a model for trans issues. There are a bunch of articles today suggesting that Democrats look at what happened in Ohio, which was the rejection of what effectively was sort of a pro-life ballot initiative. They look at that and they say, well, this means that suddenly the people of Ohio are socially left wing. No, it means there's a status quo. Bias And. it means that whenever there is a muscular attempt to enshrine in state law via referendum, more pro-life positions, people don't like it because they're status quo biased. And if you're gonna do it, you have to do it gradually. You have to do it over time. But both sides, because of that polarization, they're no longer seeking gradual. So you either have New York, which is seeking to legalize abortion until you're 85 years old, or you have people on the right or seeking to ban all abortion in the state.

0 (45m 27s):
Now obviously, I have a lot of sympathy for that second position. That's the position that I hold. But it's not going to work if you can't actually win. Now, victory is a necessity here, and Republicans should be smart about how they pursue it. Okay? Time for some things I like, and then some things that I hate. So things that I like today. So there's this crazy case in Stockton, California where two Stockton seven 11 clerks attacked a would-be thief with sticks video of that July 29th, assault has gained national attention. It's a five minute clip. This guy is emptying shelves of cigarettes and other products just into a bag 'cause he's about to steal it. And one of the clerks pins the man down and another beats him with a pole, to which I say yes. More of this Stockton police said they were investigating what police called the suspected assault and suspected robberies at the seven 11.

0 (46m 11s):
Here's what the tape looked like.

13 (46m 16s):
Quiet what

14 (46m 16s):
The beating seen in this now viral video is under investigation by the Stockton Police Department. The more than five minute clip shows him Soros this an emptying shelves

0 (46m 26s):
Of cigarettes. Here's this terrible person

14 (46m 28s):
From the Stockton seven 11 store

0 (46m 30s):
Stealing people's property trashcan into trashcan. I'm

15 (46m 31s):
Telling him, no, there's nothing we can do. There's nothing you can do, Don. There's nothing. You know, we just let him take and just go.

14 (46m 39s):
And store clerks stepping in as

0 (46m 40s):
The store clerk said, no, recorded That, that, and now that guy's going to town. You know what? Dude deserved it. Good on the Stockton clerks. Honest to God, I'm tired of this nonsense where you have to pretend sensitivity for people who are stealing product and walking out of stores with trash bags filled with stolen product. You deserve to get your ass kicked. And this, this store clerk who gives him a beating, a few more beatings like this, and there'll be a lot less thievery in, in places like Stockton. The the pathetic fact, of course is that now it's now it, it's seen as so normalized to steal that like it used to be when I was a kid that if somebody was gonna shoplift, It was like a pack of gum in your pocket. And now they're just walking with giant trash bags and filling them up with things and walking out like it's the prices right?

0 (47m 24s):
Or something. It's wild. So good for the store clerk. They're not gonna be charged as they, as they should not be because of course that is ridiculous. Okay? Time for a rare things I like. Okay, this is a very, very, very rare thing. I like you, ready? I'm gonna say that Joe Biden is doing a, a correct thing now. So for those who say, I never say that Joe Biden has done a correct thing, Joe Biden is doing a correct thing. Here's the thing that Joe Biden is doing. That is correct. He signs an executive order on Wednesday aimed at curbing the flow of American investment. And management know-how into limited range of Chinese firms, the administration fears could fuel Beijing's military ambitions. It's an initial step that will not take effect until next year, but it is a signal to China's leadership that Washington is gonna continue to impose restrictions on Beijing's access to critical technology that is in fact necessary. China is building up its military, they're seeking more and more sophisticated microchips and superconductors in order to build up that military for a possible takeover of Taiwan.

0 (48m 10s):
Chinese officials are mad, which is always a good indicator that actually we're doing something right. The US habitually politicized his tech and trade issues and uses them as a tool and weapon in the name of National Security said Chinese Embassy spokesman Lu Penu in a statement to the Washington Post. But China Hawks on both sides of the aisle. Are they, they say the proposal, well, good does not go far enough. So the praise is qualified in the sense that I agree with this. Obviously there's a very, very limited step by the Biden administration, but it is a step in the right direction. Mike McCall, Republican of Texas says, the administration scaling back at a time when aggressive action is needed more than ever continues the trend of appeasing industry at the cost of national security. But again, the fact that Biden is doing anything at all is better than nothing, I suppose. So you can see it as glass half full, glass half empty.

0 (48m 50s):
So I, I choose at this point to see at least this as, as somewhat glass quarter full. So let's put it that way. Okay, time for a thing that I hate. So our hearts got to everybody in Laa Maui today, just horrifying. Apparently death toll from fast moving wildfires has now increased to 36 Maui County officials sent on Wednesday night. The blazes have been raging across at least three of Hawaii islands because of strong winds linked to hurricane Dora. A a bunch of sort of historic stuff on Maui got destroyed. Lahaina, which is one of the most beautiful places in all of America, is, was utterly ravaged. My, my wife and I used to vacation in Maui pretty regularly with the kids.

0 (49m 32s):
And Laha note was like the stop It was the place that you went on a, on a beautiful evening to go shopping. It's just a series of shops like ice cream stores and jewelry stores and art stores. And it's really fun and really kooky and, and It was basically burned to the grounds. This is truly, you know, a horrifying situation. 11,000 people were evacuated from Maui on Wednesday alone. So all of that is terrible. There. There are a bunch of links to places that you can go to help people who have been affected by the wildfires, ranging from the American Red Cross to the Maui Relief Fund. So people should go and give generously because that is a terrible situation. Okay, time four, our latest episode of Deconstructing the Culture. This is where I go viral for pointing out that pop culture absolutely blows And.

0 (50m 13s):
it is terrible for you. So let's do it. Today's deconstructing the culture comes courtesy of Doja Cat, given name. Obviously she came out of her mother and her mother said, I shall call this one Doja cat. And I'll be honest, I have no idea what Doja Cat's background is. I don't know why this person is famous, because she doesn't seem to be like a particularly talented human, but apparently she's perceived as talented by our un, our vast unwashed, the same people who have made Barbie a billion dollar movie. And Doja cat, apparently she gained her stage name from one of her cats as well as her favorite strain of marijuana. I just looked that up right now.

0 (50m 56s):
So that's definitely a way to name yourself is after one of your cats whose apparently name was, was Cat, and also your favorite strain of marijuana, obviously that's, that's solid style that, that's, that's just fan fricking fantastic. So Doja Cat has now put out a song titled Paint the Town Red. So the left in culture has gone so far now that there, there's literally no place left to go except to just get directly in bed with Satan. And this has become kind of the common meme these days. So it used to be a little more subtle, right? Honestly, when you're talking about Madonna in the early eighties as subtle, that's how far we've come. Madonna in the early eighties riding around wearing like Catholic imagery, he's doing the kind of, doing the kind of saint sinner routine that was, that was considered brazen then.

0 (51m 45s):
Now it's the height of subtlety because you now have like little Mass X having sex with Satan, having gay sex with Satan in his videos. Or you have Sam Smith dressing up as fat ugly Satan while doing a routine with a man who says that he's a woman. And now we have Doja cat who has jumped in on this, just open satanic imagery. Satan apparently is now the good. Satan is great. Satan is great. Okay, well, I, I, I guess I'm glad you're saying the quiet part out loud. Here it is. Paint the town red by a woman who named herself after her cat. And a marijuana strain. Yes, folks, there used to be a Western civilization. Here we go.

17 (52m 26s):
You can't take that better with no hair. Ugh. Ain't no saying I can't smoke hair. Ugh. Yeah, gimme the chance and not go there. I said, what?

0 (52m 37s):
Now she's dressed up as Satan, naked

17 (52m 42s):
Don't,

0 (52m 42s):
With like creepy imagery. And now here she is dressed in a red outfit and reflected as Satan in a sib. I don't even know. She's like, caressing what looks like a weird, and now she's, you know, having sex with another demon. So that's, that's great. What? I don't know what that's, it's probably some sort of alien, like a weird alien, weird, creepy alien. And now she's cutting the umbilical cord for the weird alien. I, I don't know what is supposed to be happening here other than it's kind of horrifying and, and terrible. The lyrics for this, which I will now read for purposes of Media Matters, they can clip it out of context and then claim that I'm trying to wrap the song as opposed to cynically reading the song.

0 (53m 27s):
So now I'm gonna read the lyrics to this piece of crap, and I'm going to point out how bad this is by juxtaposing it with one of the great pieces of music ever written so that you can tell kind of how we have declined here because obviously this is great art. We have been told that this is great art because people apparently like this. I don't know why, but then again, I don't understand the taste of the American people, obviously, because I mean, who wouldn't love a song featuring a woman dressed in nothing but body paint, bald, wearing devil horns and cutting the chord, the umbilical chord of an alien creature? Who wouldn't, who wouldn't love this? So here are the lyrics to paint the town red to the strains of box first Brandenburg concerto. Let's do this thing. Walk on by, walk on by, walk on by, walk on by.

0 (54m 10s):
Yeah. I said what I said I'd rather be famous. Instead, I let all that get to my head. I don't care. I paint the town red. I said, what? I said I'd rather be famous. Instead, I let all that get to my head. I don't care. I paint the town red. Mm, she the devil. She a bad low. She a rebel. She put her foot to the pedal. It'll take a whole lot for me to settle. Mm. She the devil also send my happiness is all of your misery. I put good in all my kidneys. So, okay, you can stop the music.

0 (54m 51s):
So, yeah, I mean, I don't see what's bad about this. So what's bad? So b used to write music as a tribute to God, right? That that's literally why he would write music. He was a church organist. And so he would write his music with an eye toward the divine. And so that is the result. And even Beethoven, who is much more of a secularist in his religious outlook, wrote with an eye toward sort of a secular humanist version of a higher morality. That's what the, the ode to Joy is. At the end of the ninth Symphony, Brahms, whose music I love was essentially a secular humanist, but very religiously tolerant.

0 (55m 31s):
None of them would've said, you know, who's great? The devil love the devil. It turns out when you worship the devil and when you worship the pagan, the place you end up is here. Now when Satan is start creating actual art that beautifies the world and makes the world a better place, maybe I'll start taking their philosophy a little seriously. Why? Because it turns out that the products of a philosophy very often are tied to the philosophy itself, but it makes my argument super easy that our satanic, pagan current pop culture is garbage when what they produce is actual. Like that's, it makes my argument super. So I, I appreciate you doing that. I appreciate you making the argument super easy for me. I don't even have to make the argument anymore. All I have to do is just show clips of Doja Cat, a person who named herself once again after a cat and a marijuana strain dressed up as Satan and wrapping that garbage.

0 (56m 17s):
That's all I have to do. You made my argument for me, so I appreciate it. Alrighty guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it, it we'll be joined on the line by Clay Travis, founder of Ick to discuss his brand new book, American Playbook. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.