ExpressVPN (0s):
The Bench Bureau Show is sponsored by ExpressVPN Protect, your online Privacy today at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (5s):
Less than a month ago, we saw the worst attack on Jews since the Holocaust Since. then we've also seen the worst global spike in Antisemitism since the Holocaust, according to Reuters quote, in countries where figures are available from police or civil society groups, including the United, States, Britain, France Germany, and South Africa, the pattern is clear. The number of anti-Semitic incidents has gone up since October 7th by several hundred percent compared with the same period last year. Such incidents range from verbal abuse to threats to property attacks to actual assaults. Some are happening on our nation's campuses. This one happened at Harvard where the editor of the Harvard, Law Review EBITDA BMO joined in

1 (44s):
You

0 (44s):
Can see the crowd mobilizing around a Jewish student pushing the Jewish student around. Again. One of these people is the editor of the Harvard Law Review. Antisemitism also extends into the administrative halls of our universities. Georgetown just hired the radical Antisemite. Anisa Johnson as new assistant director of Academic Affairs. Here are some of her posts. This is July seventh quote. Ever, since going to Nu, I have a deep seated hatred for Zio bleeps. They. bring out the worst in me. You know why I call them Zio bleeps because they weren dogs. This is the kind of person who apparently gets hired at Georgetown Meanwhile. Ilya Shapiro, a law professor was thrown out of his job for the crime of suggesting that Joe Biden was picking judicial nominees based on race, which he said himself Meanwhile.

0 (1m 30s):
Some Jewish businesses are being boycotted for the crime of being Jewish businesses. According to the Washington Post, more than 30 Jewish eateries and markets in Philadelphia are now being hit with a boycott organized by a pro kamas group because they are, quote, owned by Zionists. Even Some shops that aren't even owned by Jews are being boycotted because they serve Israeli food, because according to the Philly Palestine Coalition, such a food is quote a means of erasing Palestinian existence, unquote. But there's something peculiar about all the media reports about the extravagant spike In Antisemitism. Every single story also carries notes about supposedly concomitant rise in Islamophobia. This is odd to say the least. What the hell does Islamophobia have to do with antisemitism? The answer is precisely nothing.

0 (2m 10s):
Precisely nothing that is unless you wish to suggest that response to Antisemitism is linked with Islamophobia, that if you wish to oppose radical Muslim antisemitism, that in fact is an aspect of Islamophobia, which of course is precisely what Antisemites are suggesting these days. Take for example, co Saylor of the council on American Islamic relations Care is the most frequently cited group in America on rising Islamophobia care is also a group that, by the way, was an unindicted co-conspirator. In the trial of Hamas front charity, the Holy Land Foundation, sailor himself refuses to condemn boycotts on Jewish businesses. He told the Washington Post quote, it is 100% on the table to criticize supporters of Israeli apartheid care himself accuses Israel of textbook ethnic cleansing and war crime for defending itself.

0 (2m 52s):
Trots out anti-Semite, extraordinarily Linda Sarsour, and promotes the Hamas lie that Israel bombed a hospital. Of course, it was Palestinian Islamic Jihad. On October 7th, the date of the Kamas Massacre Care national tweeted quote, we join the American Muslim community in reaffirming our support for the Palestinian people's right to freedom and calling for an end to the Israeli occupation, which sparks the deadly violence that we see again and again, including today. On October 7th, before any Israeli response at all care also called for an end to American aid to Israel and the Abraham Accords. The group has not offered a single word condemning Hamas. In other words, care is anti-Semitic. Good thing the Biden administration infamously invited care to participate in its national antisemitism strategy back in may care is by any stretch of the imagination, a giant foment of antisemitism.

0 (3m 37s):
But that of course is the point of focusing on supposed Islamophobia. The goal is to treat response to antisemitism as a form of Islamophobia. So for example, sailor claims it is Islamophobia to publicize the names of students who sign petitions, siding with Hamas, while simultaneously claiming it's not antisemitism to boycott Jewish businesses because they're Jewish fascinating. Columbia University is playing the same game. The president of Columbia University sent out a letter yesterday praising the quote, persistence and perseverance of students who have signed letters supporting Hamas after their names and faces have been shown publicly. Opposing Hamas means Islamophobia. Apparently, the legacy media feel the same way too. That's precisely why since October 7th, the media have rushed to link antisemitism and Islamophobia as though the two phenomena are part of a cycle of hatred.

0 (4m 21s):
That's a disgusting, wrong take that excuses antisemitism through false charges of Islamophobia, but it's an extraordinarily common take on the left these days when variation on the theme comes from Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez, who has now emerged as one of the nation's leading antisemites. She now accuses the American Israel Public Affairs Committee of quote, being an extremist group attempting to undermine American democracy and targeting members of color. Yes, those Wiley Jews and their dirty shekels are clearly the problem. As Antisemitism around the nation spikes, they must be stopped. According to AOC, the Biden administration itself is falling into the trap of linking antisemitism and Islamophobia a link that has the purposeful goal of demonizing opposition to Hamas, fearful of their own base. The Biden administration announced yesterday a White House national strategy to combat Islamophobia again in the middle of the worst spike in antisemitism of my lifetime or my parents' lifetime.

0 (5m 8s):
Ka Jean-Pierre explained for too long Muslims in America and those perceived to be Muslims such as Arabs and Sikhs have endured a disproportionate number of hate fueled attacks and other discriminatory incidents. In actuality, Sikhs are targeted far more often than Muslims. According to the FBI, despite representing just a few hundred thousand people in the United States, Jews represent around 60% of all victims of federally monitored hate crime, despite representing about 2% of the American population. But Islamophobia is the real issue here is Vice President Kamala Harris announcing the new initiative yesterday.

2 (5m 39s):
As a result of the Hamas terrorist attack in Israel and the humanitarian crisis in Gaza, we have seen an uptick in anti Palestinian, anti-Arab, anti-Semitic, and Islamophobic incidents across America, including the brutal attack of a Palestinian American woman who was Muslim and the killing of her 60 year old son. A senseless act of violence that the Department of Justice is investigating as a hate crime for so many people in our nation. The past few days and weeks have brought about all too familiar fears, fears that they will be targeted, profiled, or attacked simply because of who they are, how they worship, or how they look.

0 (6m 28s):
Again, linking these two things is ridiculous. The case that she cites, by the way, which is a horrifying crime against a Palestinian American mom and her child, horrifying, horrifying crime, condemned by literally everyone. You can't find a Jew in America who won't condemn it. However, you can find care national that will not condemn Kamas. So why is the White House playing this game? Because they're attempting to buy back the support of radical Muslims across the United States who enraged that the White House has sided with Israel instead of Hamas. The latest polls show that nearly six in 10 American Muslims agree that Hamas was justified in attacking Israel as part of their struggle. For a Palestinian state, the White House is trying to buy off the Hamas fans by jabbering about the supposed victimhood to which those Hamas fans are subjected.

0 (7m 8s):
It's perverse. It continues to drive a false narrative that opposition to Hamas and opposition to Hamas fans is opposition to Muslims more broadly a proposition that Muslims themselves should reject, although we're still waiting for a lot of people to do so, the moderate Muslims have been conspicuously silent. If the Biden administration feels the necessity to keep radical Muslims in their electoral coalition by pandering that says something pretty nasty about their moral stature in fighting antisemitism as they claim they actually want to do in just one second, we'll get to the situation in Britain, which is going to become a lot worse over the course of the next few weeks.

Balance Of Nature (7m 41s):
First, gotta tell you, it's been very stressful, period, been traveling a lot. It's hard for me to get my fruits and veggies. I don't like the veggies all that much to begin with. This is why I've been relying on Balance, Of, Nature, Balance, Of, Nature. Fruits and veggies are a great way to make sure you're getting essential nutritional ingredients every single day. Balance Of Nature uses an advanced cold vacuum process that encapsulates fruits and veggies into whole food supplements without sacrificing their natural antioxidants. The capsules are completely void of additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticide, or added sugar. The only thing imbalance of nature's fruit and veggie capsules are well fruits and veggies. There's never been an easier way to make sure you're getting your daily dose of fruits and veggies. Balance Of Nature Sense, a bunch of fruit and veggie capsules down to the studio for my team to try. Everybody is feeling brighter, more energy healthier. I love Balance Of Nature because it helps me make my busy schedule a lot more manageable. Go to Balance Of Nature dot com, use promo code SHAPIRO right now to get 35% off your first order as a preferred customer. Again, I've been using Balance Of Nature myself. It's great. Go to Balance Of Nature dot com promo code Shapiro for 35% off that first preferred order, and get the healthy nutrients that you require to get you through the day. Balance Of Nature dot com promo code Shapiro.

0 (8m 44s):
Okay, so over in Britain, a lot of this is gonna come to a head because apparently there is a planned pro Hamas rally, a million strong march in favor of Hamas, and of course, against those horrible Jews who are defending themselves in Israel. They're gonna do it on Remembrance Day. According to the UK Express, an MP is now called for the military to be drafted in to keep the peace in London after emerge that these protesters are organizing their March on Remembrance Day. The plan day of the protest, November 11th, will clash directly with this year's remembrance Day. It comes a day before the annual Senate half Memorial for Remembrance Sunday. Despite the head of the Met Sirima rally telling the London assembly, the protestors quote will not be allowed to near the official events or to disrupt them.

0 (9m 26s):
There are serious concerns about how such a large protest can take place while maintaining law and order. A to MP has told the express that the Metropolitan police and city ccan, who is the mayor of London, must ask for military assistance. Crowley MP Henry Smith said, quote, after consecutive weeks of demonstrations, where the Senate half and other national monuments have been grossly disrespected. It's completely inappropriate for further protest to be held over Remembrance weekend. He said, I don't have confidence in the Mayor of London or the Met Police under him to properly handle the situation given their past poor record. And that, of course, is exactly right. I mean, the fact is that the West imported a huge number of radical Muslims who hate Jews and hate the West, and who have been taking advantage of the great material beneficence of the West to live there.

0 (10m 8s):
That's not every Muslim. There are many Muslims who are happy to live in a place like Britain or like the United States and who are happy to engage with Western countries and imbibe from the well of Western values. There are many of those people, they're just not the people who are marching in favor of kamas and those people. There are a lot of those people and trying to pretend that, trying to pretend that that's not happening in the face of images that are extraordinary from places like London or from America's, America's college campuses. That is absolutely foolhardy. Now, what's amazing about all of this is that because the media have basically taken the side of Hamas in this conflict, which was the most predictable thing, they swiveled directly from, we can't believe this atrocity that Hamas created to Israel is committing atrocities every single day. It's absolutely terrible. It's the occupation two state solution, like just parroting every Hamas stalking point.

0 (10m 50s):
Because of that, you're starting to see wavering inside the Biden administration, and, and it's, it's only coming from a radical few, by the way. It, it does show the power of the legacy media now for all the talk about how the legacy media has been challenged or overthrown, and it's true that being completely overthrown, they still have an enormous amount of weight with members, for example, of the Biden administration. All it takes is a radical few people to apparently move the Democratic coalition toward placating Hamas in some way. So yesterday, Joe Biden was at a fundraiser, and at this fundraiser he was yelled at by a, a person calling himself a female rabbi. This person, again, has about as much to do with Judaism as a buttered lobster.

0 (11m 32s):
Here is, here is quote unquote Rabbi Jessica Rosenberg, who is neither a rabbi nor apparently a woman calling for a ceasefire.

3 (11m 41s):
Mr. President, oh my God, you care about Jewish people as a rabbi. I need you to call for a ceasefire right now.

0 (11m 54s):
Joe Biden then answered quote, I think we need a pause. A pause means give time to get the prisoners out. I'm the guy that convinced Bibe to call for a ceasefire to let the prisoners out. I'm the guy that talked to Cece to convince him to open the door. The the heckler was escorted out by security while singing ceasefire. Now, so this, by the way, is a picture of quote unquote Rabbi Jessica Rosenberg. So yeah, just, just like a a, just like a normal rabbi, you can, you can see this, this person probably has a rabbinic degree from Yeshiva University from REITs. This, this person obviously is knowledgeable in all aspects of haha. I mean, except for every single aspect of haha. But, but sure this a ache a a gotha door over here.

0 (12m 36s):
I know that's a lot of Hebrew for people who are not inside the Orthodox community, but everybody who's an Orthodox fan right now is laughing because that's an absurdity piled on top of an absurdity. What's amazing though is that the Democratic party seems increasingly interested in ignoring its own its own voters. I mean, the reality is that young voters in America, democratic young voters are against Israel, but everybody else in the United States is very much in favor of Israel, wiping away Hamas, in fact, pulling data from Echelon Insights quote, who do you think is mostly responsible for civilian casualties in the Gaza Strip? Total number, 64% Hamas, this is in the battleground states, 64% Hamas, 14% Israel, 22% unsure.

0 (13m 18s):
I mean, that is strong support. That is very, very strong support for Israel in the Battleground states. This is a popular position, in fact, even among demographic groups that the Biden administration is gonna disproportionately rely upon. Say for example, black voters, black voters support Israel over Hamas in who's responsible for the, the civilian casualties. They say Hamas, 44% to 20%. In fact, even among young voters who are supposedly Biden's court demographic, 30% of people aged 18 to 29 say Hamas. 24% say Israel, 46% say unsure. Now, as per our usual arrangement, the older you get in the United States, apparently age does confer wisdom.

0 (13m 60s):
If you get to the 65 plus crowd, 83% say Hamas is responsible for civilian casualties. Only 4% say Israel, again, demonstrating, that's it. Young people in the United States are unbelievably ignorant and stupid, but we knew that anyway, by the way, there is a, there's a hilarious video going around that I'm gonna play for you in a moment, demonstrating just how little people know about anything when they say that they support Kamas or support, quote unquote free Palestine from the river to the sea, and all this nonsense.

Good Ranchers (14m 23s):
First, there's a lot at stake in the next election. So don't be a chicken and shop at a grocery store like usual. Instead, head on over to Good Ranchers their Black Friday. Your Way sale is live. It's something you don't wanna miss. Yes, they have great meat puns, but they have even better meat. This November, you have to pick your favorite meat to get free for a year. Pick a year of free steak, salmon, chicken, or bacon when you subscribe to any box right now. Better yet, when you subscribe to any box on Good Ranchers dot com, you not only get a free gift of meat worth up to four 80 bucks, you also get 15 bucks off with Code Shapiro. The only big deal your grocery store has is on expiring food. So ditch that meat aisle. Subscribe at Good Ranchers dot com today. So actually Good Ranchers recently sent me a custom all kosher box with kosher salmon. I gotta tell you, it's awesome. It's really good. Now, Youst gonna meat kosher, but you don't need it to be kosher probably. So that means you're really going to enjoy it. It's really good. In fact, I was just told by Kelly that while she was out of town while we were on this British tour, it turns out that her husband ate through the entire Good Ranchers package. So congratulations to him that that sounds amazing. Claim it your year of free meat, 15 bucks off free shipping with my coach, Shapiro Good Ranchers dot com. Good Ranchers is the number one place to get all American beef, pork, chicken and seafood. That's promo coach Shapiro Good Ranchers dot com. Good Ranchers, American Meats delivered

Policy Genius (15m 36s):
Policy Genius. You need life insurance. Just a simple fact of the matter. You need life insurance because unfortunately, all of us are gonna plot to some point when we do wanna make sure that our loved ones have that financial safety net they require. Policy Genius makes it easy to compare life insurance quotes from top companies and find your lowest price that licensed agents work for you, not the insurance companies. That means they don't have an incentive to recommend one insurer over another so you can trust their guidance. There are no added fees. Your personal information is kept private. It's really satisfying to check that life insurance off the list. I got a lot of life insurance on me, as you can well imagine, and it was a pain in the butt and I was glad to get it done. But Policy Genius makes it super easy for you. Life insurance through your workplace might not offer enough protection for your family's needs. It's not gonna follow you if you leave your job. That's why you need your own personal life insurance. With Policy Genius, you can find life insurance policies that start at just 292 bucks per year for a million dollars in coverage. Some options offer same day approval and avoid those unnecessary medical exams. Your loved ones deserve that financial safety net, and you deserve a smarter way to find and buy it. Go to Policygenius dot com slash apparel or click that link in the description, Get your free life insurance quote. see how much you could save. That's Policygenius dot com slash Shapiro Policygenius dot com slash Shapiro.

0 (16m 37s):
And when young people say that they are in favor of Hamas, it's because they literally don't know what they're talking about. I I, if, if you go to any of these rallies and you find a person who is not a radical Muslim, you just find a left wings fellow traveler and you ask them, which river and which sea are you talking about when you say from the river to the sea, Palestine will be free. They can't name them. If you ask them on a map of Israel, where exactly do you want Palestine to be? They will not. Even if you give a map of the world, they won't even know where exactly quote unquote, Palestine is supposed to be on the map. This was exposed by a pretty funny video yesterday. This is a, a person going up to young people and asking them to sign a petition to help Hamas in the Gaza Strip, and then he reads them the details,

4 (17m 17s):
Doing a, a quick petition to help Hamas free Palestine. You're all in, all right? Oh yeah, you're in easily. I just have to read terms and conditions, just so you know. You know what you're signing. Okay. By supporting Hamas springing Palestine, you agree to the following, you agree that every Jew, Christian, and non-Muslim in the world must be slaughtered. I don't know about that one. You endorse making homosexuality punishable by jail or death. What? Oh, no, that I don't agree. You don't agree with that? You believe Iran should use Palestinians as puppets to spread radical gid and destroy the West? No, no. I'm glad I read the terms and agreements. You support strict Sharia law, which bans women from showing their knees, hair playing sports in public, not being able to travel without a man's permission.

4 (17m 58s):
I'm sorry, yes. Not interested. Oh, okay. You wanna terrorist group that heads babies and rapes girls to replace only democracy in the Middle East? Not

5 (18m 5s):
Sure. That's something to support.

4 (18m 7s):
So if I sign, I agree with this, yes. Maybe. No. No. Okay. Oh no. Thank you. No,

5 (18m 14s):
I don't support any of these two things that you described to

4 (18m 17s):
Me. Okay. So I

5 (18m 18s):
Won't be able to sign this

4 (18m 19s):
Now. That's fair. Yeah. Thanks for not signing.

0 (18m 22s):
Okay, so that is Mikey Greenblatt, and he's just going up to people. People express support for the quote unquote oppressed without thinking about whether the oppressed are actually oppressed or actually good. And that's one of the reasons why you see young people constantly resonating to the wrong side of conflict. They constantly do this. They look at any conflict and because they've been taught to think in a deconstructionist way, because they think of all relationships as relationships of power, and this is what they've been taught in their schools, what they've been taught in their universities. Because when they do, the first thing they do is they say, who's powerful? And who has less power? And whoever is powerful must be bad, and whoever is powerless must be exploited, oppressed, and therefore good. And of course, that's a lie, but they don't think about any of that stuff. And so they sign onto these movements until it's too late, obviously.

0 (19m 3s):
Now, the thing about this is that the Democrats should know better, but apparently they don't. So now you're hearing rumblings that the Biden administration is going to try to put pressure on Israel for some sort of humanitarian ceasefire or to ship fuel in to the Gaza Strip. Lemme explain something about this fuel situation. Hamas has hundreds of thousands of gallons of fuel. They're using it to maintain their presence in these tunnels because when the fuel goes out, all of their generators go out. When the generators go out, you can't live underground. They would have to come up and actually fight the Israelis like men instead of like rats. But instead, what they weren doing is they're staying down in the tunnels and they're hiding their civilians on top. So if Israel has to strike the tunnel, civilians get killed, and then they can go to the compliant press, the complacent press, the pro kamas press, and they can get those people to mimic their line that Israel is attempting to kill civilians when Israel is the only party in this conflict attempting to minimize the killing of civilians.

0 (19m 54s):
I should point out at this point that Kamas is the governing power in the Gaza Strip. Any governing powers first responsibility is to protect its citizens. That's the first responsibility. You know how I know this? Because Israel for, for example, right now, Hezbollah is threatening on the northern border. Israel took 30,000 of its own citizens and moved them inland from the northern border. No one talks about that, of course, because that's a population movement of Jews. No one caress about that. By the way, speaking of other population movements, Pakistan is now expelling 1.7 million Afghans from Pakistan back into Afghanistan. No one caress 'cause it's Muslim by Muslim, doesn't matter because when Muslims do horrible things to Muslims, no one cares at all. In fact, as it turns out, when Muslims do horrible things to Jews, a lot of people don't seem to care very much. It's only when Jews defend themselves that people really seem to start caring a lot.

0 (20m 37s):
In any case, Gaza is filled with fuel. It's just all controlled by Hamas. When you ship in more fuel, it is not going to power the hospitals. It is going to power Hamas. In fact, there is a reason why Hamas apparently has stationed virtually all of its fuel sources under SFA Hospital. It's not to power the hospital. They've been claiming that SFA hospital is running outta fuel and literally like a few yards underground is the fuel. Why? Because that fuel is not going to the hospital. That's the whole point. So when you have people like Joe Biden telling Israel to ship fuel in, that is immediately gonna be stolen by Hamas to power their tunnels. All you are doing is prolonging this conflict. All you are doing is making the situation worse. Meanwhile, you have Tony Blinken trying to tell Israel that maybe, maybe, maybe there should be some cease fires.

0 (21m 21s):
They don't like the strategy. Let me make this clear. Israel on a timeline has been engaged in the ground conflict part of this war for less than a week, for less than a week. And, and already the west is starting to lose its nerve again, no shock from some of the usual suspects and of course prompted by the pro Hamas media. So already you're starting to see the wavering members of the Democratic coalition. You knew who they were gonna be, right? It's all the, the most left wing members of the Democratic Coalition. It's Senator Dick Durban from Illinois, right? Senator Dick Durban. This is the same guy who once compared American soldiers in Iraq to poll pot. And, and now this moral Genius, he's suggesting that he wants a ceasefire. By the way, a ceasefire helps only one party in this conflict, Hamas.

0 (22m 2s):
The reason that they are begging, screaming, pleading for a ceasefire right now is because Israel, tactically speaking, is now surrounding Gaza City. A huge percentage of Hamas' leadership is in Gaza City. The reason they want a ceasefire right now is to restock, to resupply, to maybe smuggle people out. That's the whole reason for the ceasefire. By the way, there was a ceasefire in place between Israel and Kamas until October 6th. Then on October 7th, that ceasefire was violated by the worst antisemitic killing precinct of the Holocaust. All these moral dementia patients like, like Dick Durbin, calling for a ceasefire on behalf of Kamas, truly, truly vile. Here we go.

6 (22m 37s):
Is a ceasefire needed now?

7 (22m 41s):
I think it is, at least under in the context of both sides agreeing, for example, the release of those who have been kidnapped should be part of this immediate release. That should be the beginning of it. An effort should be made to engage in conversation between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Let's face it, this has gone on for decades. Whatever the rationale from the beginning, it has now reached an intolerable level. We need to have a resolution in the Middle East that gives some promise for the future.

0 (23m 12s):
What? It's, it's reached an intolerable level. Which part was the intolerable part? The part where they slaughtered 1500 Jews and took another 200 prisoner, killed a bunch of foreign people as well, like what our holding American citizens killed a bunch of American citizens. Which part of that, which is how, what was the level at which it reached intolerable for Dick Durban? Was it when they weren some ugly pictures on tv? 'cause war is ugly and horrific, especially when your enemy is propping up women and children in front of bombs to try to protect their terrorists. You know, again, the, the insane logic of people who are now suggesting that it is up to Israel to stop killing terrorists because those terrorists have chosen to hide themselves among civilians. That's so insane. That is literally saying to terrorists, the best thing you can do to protect yourself is hide with civilians.

0 (23m 54s):
That's what you are saying. You are saying the smartest thing you can do is murder civilians on the other side, and then run and hide behind civilians on your own side. The more, in other words, the more laws of war you violate, the more we can call on the other side to not kill you, which is totally the reverse of the incentive structure you wanna set up. If the whole point of the rules of war is to get people into uniform on a battlefield away from civilians, then you can't reward them for hiding behind civilians, which is exactly what Dick Durbin wants to do. Same thing with Chris Murphy. Chris Murphy, of course, is the ridiculous senator from Connecticut. He's always been, he's always been really soft when it comes to Israel. He says, as I have said, consistently Israel has a right and an obligation to defend its people from terror attacks like the horrific events of October 7th, the Kamas terrorists who planned and executed those attacks must be held accountable, and the ability of kamas to carry out similar attacks in the future must be eliminated.

0 (24m 42s):
It's time for Israel's friends to recognize the current operational approach is causing an unacceptable level of civilian harm and does not appear likely to achieve the goal of permanently ending the threat from Kamas. That's from Chris Murphy. Okay. Like military advice from Chris Murphy. I I, I'm just wondering who knows more about military battle in the Middle East, Chris Murphy or the entire IDF. I mean, let's be fair, he did get his JD from University of Connecticut Law School. I mean, that's, that's pretty impressive in terms of his military credentials to talk about what is going to be successful militarily and what is not. When he says this is not dedicated toward eliminating Hamas or is unlikely to eliminate, then why is Hamas standing for the ceasefire?

0 (25m 23s):
Why does Kamas want the ceasefire? Why is Kamas on Chris Murphy's side? Presumably, if it were in the best interest of Israel to pursue a ceasefire, it would be Hamas not wanting a ceasefire in Israel, wanting a ceasefire, trying to pretend that he's a friend of Israel while undercutting Israel's military policy is ridiculously stupid or corrupt, or both. He says, as we have learned from America's own counter-terrorism campaigns, disproportionately large number of civilian casualties come with a moral cost, but also a strategic cost. As terrorist groups feed off of grievances caused by civilian harm, Israel is doing its best to distinguish between civilian and terrorist in the Gaza strip. Hamas is attempting to obscure that, and he is now declaring that Hamas should effectively have him immunity. He says, I share Israel's de desire to destroy the threat from Hamas.

0 (26m 4s):
No, you don't. He says, I know Israel caress about the impact of this war on innocent Palestinians, even as they track Hamas' hideouts inside and below mosque's apartment buildings in schools. But the way in which the current campaign is being waged suggests they've not struck the right balance between military necessity, military necessity, and proportionality. He says he urges Israel to shift to a more deliberate and proportionate counter-terrorism campaign, surgically targeting Kamas and Islamic Jihad leaders in terrorist infrastructure while more highly prioritizing the safety of civilians. So, I'm, I'm just wondering what exactly does that look like? I assume what he means is he wants more Jewish soldiers to die in Gaza going house to house. I presumably that that's what he means. So he should just say that out loud that he thinks that the, the Jewish army has an obligation to get many, many, many of its soldiers murdered on the streets of Gaza by terrorists and some civilian quasi civilian supporters.

0 (26m 51s):
I mean, by the way, the, the distinguishing civilian and, and non civilian is very real, but it's very difficult when people blur the line. they weren many civilians, people who were not formal members of Kamas. You took part in the actual attacks of October 7th. There's film of them doing so, but of course, Chris Murphy, it, it's not about principle here. Trying to argue with people like Chris Murphy. It's very difficult because frankly, Chris Murphy doesn't care about the truth, and he doesn't care about the reality. He cares about the outcome. And the outcome for him is that he wants pressure on Israel. The media want that too, which presumably is why they're constantly blasting out, like truly blasting out Hamas propagandists. So just a couple days ago, I played on this show, a video report from the Washington Post that featured some social media influencers from Gaza.

0 (27m 35s):
One of them was a woman named Psia Ade. Well, it turns out that a lot of these quote social media influencers from Gaza, it turns out a huge number of those people are, you know, actual propaganda fronts for Hamas. Shocker, according to the Jerusalem post Psia, Kott has more than a million followers and calls herself an independent journalist, but spread the lie on Instagram. And in an interview with British TV that Israel bombed the Al Ali hospital and killed more than a thousand people, she told Britain's GB news court, it's a genocide, literally a genocide, not a massacre. In her post, she has not provided any explanation for the commencement of the airstrikes on Gaza, namely the October 7th massacre. Another influential figure is Beeson uda, who presents herself as a filmmaker, hailing from Gaza Palestine with a substantial following numbering in the hundreds of thousands.

0 (28m 23s):
Her posts have received endorsements from, well-known figures associated with antisemitism and conspiracy theories. Following the October 7th massacre, she posted a note in Arabic on social media. For every action, there's a reaction. This means what was expected after 75 years of occupation and 17 years of siege, what was expected of us. She's been quoted as a quote, ambassador of goodwill on a, b, c news and legitimized on the BBC, and this is very common in me. Again, they're still using the Council on American Islamic relations, which was once labeled an unindicted co-conspirator in a conspiracy to funnel money from a false charity called the Holy Land Foundation to Hamas. And they're being quoted by the media as a source on Islamophobia. I searched the entire Karen National Feed yesterday.

0 (29m 5s):
They have not once condemned Hamas, not once ever, literally, ever. And yet they are, they're seen as some sort of moderate force. The media are perfectly willing to overlook the actual extreme anti-Semitic radicalism of many of the sources they're using in order to rip Israel. That is their favorite thing to do. And again, this is the game. The media ignore context. They ignore realities of war. They ignore who exactly is hiding civilians in front of their bombs. Kaylyn Collins on CNN doing a horrific job on this, here she was yesterday asking an advisor to Benjamin Netanyahu, how many Palestinians were killed in a strike on a refugee camp? And he says, well, we, we don't know the answer to that. By the way, Hamas doesn't know either.

0 (29m 45s):
They're just lying to the American media. But here's Kaitlyn Collins asking like six times,

9 (29m 50s):
Why did Israel strike again here? And do you know how many civilians have been killed in this area as a result of these strikes yesterday and today?

8 (29m 59s):
So we know we've taken out a senior Hamas commander who was directly involved in the massacre of October 7th. As you will recall. they weren rapes. they weren beheadings, they weren people burnt, alive, burned so badly. We, until today we've got 130 bodies that we can't recognize who they are. They're, they're just ashes. And anyone who was involved, especially a commander of the operation, we have a duty to find them and to bring them to justice.

9 (30m 32s):
Okay, but you're not acknowledging how many I, I assume Israel does have an estimate of how many civilians were killed. I assume you have an estimate of how many civilians are there when you make a calculus on when to strike. Tell me if that's wrong. But when you decide on striking targets that you say are military targets, but are also where civilians are, I mean, how many civilian deaths does Israel believe are acceptable in an airstrike if it is a military target?

8 (30m 57s):
So ob, obviously, we try to keep any collateral damage to a minimum, as minimum as possible. And the advantage of this particular location is that it has been largely not totally, but largely evacuated because we were telling people there is two weeks ago, longer that they should evacuate.

0 (31m 13s):
Okay? So again, CNN putting the pressure on, and this is the goal of the media, put the pressure on Israel. Why isn't Israel taking care of the civilians better? Why isn't Israel doing a better job with the civilians? There are reports that during that Jabalia strike that they weren women and children who literally marched out by Hamas, literally marched out by Hamas in order to get them killed. This is not a surprise. They say this crap openly. Again, it would be one thing if I were alleging it. It's another thing for Hamas to just say it and they constantly say it and then everybody just ignores it. It's unreal. It's unreal. This is why you can hear there's frustration in my voice because there's been frustration in my voice for a month. Why? Because usually I'm in the business of trying to provide what I think are reasonable arguments to generally people I think are reasonable and are able to hear reasonable arguments. And if I'm wrong, I'm wrong.

0 (31m 53s):
But we can make reasonable arguments and we can disagree on these things when Hamas says a thing, and then I repeat that they have said the thing and then people say, I don't care whether Hamas said the thing doesn't matter, it's Israel's fault. Or sure, Hamas said the thing, but they don't really mean it deep down or sure Hamas said it and they really mean it. But the real reason is that it's, it's the Jews After all. You are no longer engaged in anything remotely resembling a rational conversation. You are engaged in a propagandistic effort to prop up a genocidal Jew hating group that openly declares its desire to exterminate Jews. And then you expect people to have arguments with that. There's no way to have an argument with that position, because that's not, that's not a rational position, and it's not a position that's capable of being breached by rational thought.

0 (32m 34s):
That's the part that's extremely hard. But you're seeing it all over the media from supposedly rational people. You've got Ezra Klein who's declaring what's going on in Gaza. It's like 409 elevens. Well, I'm sure that statistically that's true. You know, who could stop that Hamas tomorrow? Why don't any of you people just call for Hamas to surrender? It's amazing. You can't get a single one of the people who are decrying the horrors happening in Gaza to say that Hamas should just surrender. It will end literally tomorrow of Hamas surrenders. They're holding 242 hostages right now, including dozens of small children, babies, nine month olds, and they murdered 1500 people in their beds in peaceful civilian villages. And your idea is that Israel's fault.

0 (33m 15s):
And so all we're supposed to look at are the casualty numbers that are created by Hamas specifically. So you'll do this, it's just Hamas ADT prop outta the mouth of mainstream media reporters.

10 (33m 27s):
Palestinian health officials say that more than 8,000 Palestinians and Gaza have been killed since October 7th. And I wanna note here that there is a fog of war. It is possibly these numbers are wrong. It is also of course possible that particularly by the end of this, these numbers will be much higher. But if you take something like the 8,000 numbers, right, well then one way the horror of October 7th was driven home. One way its scale was driven home to Americans, was to put it in terms of nine elevens adjusting for population. Joe Biden said it was like 15 nine elevens. If you take that same math, then Gaza's experienced so far around 409 elevens.

0 (34m 3s):
Again, just stripp of context and just give casualty numbers without noting who's responsible for the thing. Again, as I've said, I said this at Oxford, I said this at Cambridge, you know, if all you look at is disproportion in casualty numbers, then every American war, every western war of pretty much all time the West was wrong. Because it turns out that during World War II, you know who died the most, Germans, if you look at the, the British and the Americans versus the Germans, lots more Germans died. Then British and Americans, because that's sort of the point of the war, is to win the war. You don't tend to win the war by losing more people. Like literally the only nation on earth that tends to lose more people and win wars is Russia, because they just throw endless masses bodies at every single war, historically speaking.

0 (34m 44s):
But generally speaking, when you win a war that does involve a lot of death on the other side. And that's even when the other side is not hiding in civilian areas. How much worse is it when the other hi side is deliberately hiding in civilian areas? And yet the media strip it all of context Meanwhile, I got the, the un, the disgusting most isly of the UN saying that all this might be a war crime. Then when confronted with the actual realities of, of, of war, then they say, oh, well, no, no, no. Actually, you know what? When I don't wanna talk about that. What's amazing about this is, I'll show you in a second, is that the legacy media just mirror like the perspectives are indistinguishable from the perspectives of people who stand for Hamas, from perspective of people who create moral equivalence between Hamas and Israel, and who lie for a living.

0 (35m 27s):
Guess some more on this in just one second.

Hallow (35m 29s):
First, you know, these days I'm spending a lot of time praying. Gotta be honest with you, it's a rough world out there. Obviously, I spend a lot of time praying. We in the Jewish community pray a minimum of three times a day. But everybody should be checking in with God regularly. Take a moment to acknowledge his generosity, even in the hardest times. Hallow can help you do that. Hallow is an incredible app that offers a unique approach to prayer and meditation. Unlike other meditation apps, Hallow is tailored specifically for people of faith to deepen their relationship with God. The Hallow app is filled with studies, meditations, and reflections rooted in Judeo-Christian prayer practices. You can pray alongside Mark Walbert, Jonathan Rumi, who prays Jesus in the chosen, even some world-class athletes. You can access the number one Christian podcast, the Bible in the year with Father Mike Schmitz on Hallow with features like progress tracking and streaks. Hello, helps you stay motivated and make prayer a regular part of your daily routine. Set prayer reminders. Invite others to pray with you, track your progress along the way. If you're looking to deepen your relationship with God and improve your mental emotional wellbeing, you should Try Hallow for three months. FREE at hello.com/ Shapiro. You got nothing to lose except you know, maybe some of your, maybe some of your doubts and some of your anger. Go to Hallow dot com slash slash Again, that's hello.com/ Shapiro.

Bentkey (36m 33s):
Also, that's about something fun, something good that you can do for the world right now. How about get your kids an outlet that they can actually watch and it's safe. This is why we here The Daily. Wire created Bentkey. It's our brand new Kids Entertainment platform. There's finally an answer for those of us who are looking for kids programming that we can trust. It's an entirely new company from The, Daily Wire. It's dedicated to creating the next generation of timeless stories that transport kids into a world of adventure, imagination, and joy Bentkey is available to download right now. If you're already a DailyWire Plus member, you already have access to Bentkey, that's a $99 value you get completely free. Just download that app, start streaming right now. If you're not a member, there's never been more value to joining, then right now you get all of The Daily Wire plus content you know and Love plus Bentkey, no additional cost. Go to DailyWire dot com slash subscribe right now. Start streaming the next generation of kids. Entertainment.

PragerU (37m 17s):
Also, our friends over at PragerU, they just released a new 20 minute documentary. It's called Det Trans, the Dangers of Gender Affirming Care. It's really important. This documentary piece follows the lives of three people who detransition after initially falling into the lies and evils of the trans movement harm. Dylan hosts this riveting documentary and seeks to spread awareness of the dangers of the cultural phenomenon. Here's a bit of the trailer, I'm just gonna do a little voice. I wanted to alleviate my pain. I also didn't wanna be who I was. I always just felt like there was just something wrong with me and I was trying to figure it out. And I used the internet to help me do that. Seemingly out of nowhere, we've suddenly seen a huge spike in media depictions and social media depictions of transgenderism. It's even reached the mainstream advertising world. The people who are consuming this are children 13, 14, 15 years old, and it's so easy for them to literally be groomed. I just woke up one day and looked at myself in the mirror and asked myself, what the heck am I doing? When trans-identified kids are referred to specialized gender clinics, they're often told that they're going to get comprehensive, multidisciplinary mental health assessments. We know that that's not true. I was easy to manipulate. The Ideology that has become dominant at these clinics is that trans kids know who they are and therefore to question them is completely taboo. My childhood was ruined. Who's There for their detransition? Nobody. Nobody Would help me because they had more concerns of me reversing everything. Did this thing to alleviate this gender dysphoria that wasn't there before, but you made it into a problem and now your body image issues are worse. That's not supposed to happen. What do we do now? Head on over to prager u.com to stream it for free.

0 (39m 20s):
Okay? Meanwhile, one of the truly amazing things about our disgusting legacy media is that these supposed objective arbiters of truth and reality, they just mirror the perspectives of the most radical members of the Decolonized Coalition. So I've talked on the show over the past couple of weeks about the philosophy that links, for example, black Lives Matter with the From the River to the Sea. People like, what do those people have in common? Why are there queers for Palestine? Why are all these people marching in the same coalition? And the answer is because they hate the West and they think the West is truly, truly a horrifyingly bad place. The leader of that coalition in the United States for a long time was Tan Hassi Coates. And he was treated with this sort of bizarre reverence and respect, despite the fact that he's a garbage writer. I'm sorry, I'm just gonna put it out there. He's not a good writer. He's incredibly purple. He's been wildly overrated.

0 (40m 1s):
I I wouldn't even say that. He's a poor man's James Baldwin. He's like a dead man's James Baldwin. He like, he doesn't have any of the skill. He's not a good debater. He's not a, he's not a good thinker, he's not a good writer. There's literally nothing appealing about him other than he uses purple language. Also, dude really, really stands for Kamas. Why? Because again, oppressor versus oppressed. Colonizer versus colonized and all the rest of this. So yesterday, and, and as I've said before, the broader philosophy that is worth noting here, the broader philosophy is hatred of the West. You'll notice that replete throughout what, what this ta Hassi Coates person says, not a shockey. And he wrote in his own book, a book celebrated by our legacy media who are on the same side. He wrote in his own book that on nine 11 he sat at the top of his apartment building and watched the Towers burn and smoked blunt and felt nothing.

0 (40m 46s):
He literally writes that in his own book because that's how much he hates the country. And yet this person is seen as some sort of bizarre moral exemplar because he writes garbage like between the world and me, oh, between the world or real intellectual. In any case, here's pseudo intellectual taana hassi Coates. And again, the the stuff that he spouts is almost indistinguishable from our quote unquote objective media.

17 (41m 6s):
We have to stand on principle and if I'm a latecomer to the Palestinian cause I'm also a latecomer to the cause of non-violence. But I'm here now, you know, and, and, and knowing what that is meant to our history.

0 (41m 17s):
Sorry, Kim, pause with there for a second. No, he's a latecomer to the cause of non-violence. He's literally standing for the most violent terror group on the planet in Hamas right now. I mean, literally every governing body of the Palestinians is a violent terror group. The Palestinian authority, Islamic Jihad, Fatah, which is the military wing of the pa, these are all violent, but don't worry, he's an advocate of non-violence. He's just, it's beyond parody. It would be beyond parody, except that people are so stupid, people are so moronic that they have no clue that what he's saying is garbage. You actually have to know a few things to know how dumb he is, but it doesn't matter. People don't know things, so he gets away with it.

17 (41m 54s):
There is no way in the world that we can leverage the memory. Dr. Martin Luther King, there's no way in the world we can leverage the weight, the ancestry of our movement in defense of a war, in defense of indiscriminate bombings or refugee. We just

0 (42m 12s):
Indiscriminate.

17 (42m 13s):
We can't do that. We can't do that. We would be a disgrace to to, to our ancestors laboratories. And I would look out and I would see roads that Palestinians could use and roads that only Israeli Jews could use. I said, I, I I know what this is.

0 (42m 28s):
Okay, pause it for a second. Pause it for a second. Okay, so he says that he went to, he went to Israel, which he calls Palestine, and he said, I saw only roads that Israelis could use and only roads that Palestinians could use. Actually, that's not true. There are roads that both Palestinians and Israelis can use. Those are the ones owned by Israel. You, you have to get the right checkpoint so Israel can make sure that you are not a terrorist and then you are free to use it as a Palestinian or, and then there are only roads that Palestinians can use. So in fact, there is no road that only Israelis can use. There are roads that Israelis and Palestinians can use if you're not a terrorist. And then there are roads that only Palestinians can use. Why? Because there are no Jews living inside the Palestinian authority. None there will be murdered. There are none living under Kamas 'cause they would be murdered.

0 (43m 7s):
So he's lying right off the bat

17 (43m 9s):
Because I saw different colored license plates for different classes of people. I said, I, I know what this is.

0 (43m 14s):
Yes, but stop it there. Different colored license plates because Palestinian authority people, people living under the auspices of the Palestinian authority live under a different government. Of course, that's like saying you saw Canadian license plates and United States license plates. Duh. Yes, that is correct. Why would they have Israeli license plates? They're not Israeli citizens.

17 (43m 36s):
As I saw communities that I can only describe as as segregated and what I felt was a tremendous weight, I felt the obvious thing that I think all of us feel that our tax dollars are effectively subsidizing apartheid or subsidizing a segregationist order. A Jim Crow regime,

0 (43m 58s):
Okay, he went on to say that Israel is a democracy, like America is the world's oldest democracy. And that was the key point because again, he hates America, he hates the west, he thinks that they are bad, he benefits from them. He plays on suckers in the west to pay him oodles of money to write his absolute dumpster fire books and, and they pay him tons of money to give stupid speeches. And then he rips on the west because the west has a suicide wish. That is the only reason why the west has ever tolerated people who spend all day just ripping on them. And when I say tolerate, I mean people who they've imported because obviously citizens in the United States have free speech. I will say however, that making those people rich is an insane thing.

0 (44m 42s):
Taana Hassi Coates, a respect, you know, the DC comics had a deal with Taana Hassi Coates that human was writing the super. He was actually until like a year ago writing a Superman movie for JJ Abrams. That guy, that's how deeply embedded in our culture this garbage is. If you don't think it's a threat to America, you got it totally wrong. The threat doesn't have to come directly from Hamas, it can come from the entire decolonized coalition, which is perfectly fine with violence. Don't be fooled by his garbage about non-violence. He's literally supporting people who do terrorist violence. That's what he does. And the media, their view is almost indistinguishable. Okay? Meanwhile Israel's defense minister y Gallant, he says that Hamas has one choice here. You can either surrender or you can die. Which by the way is the proper answer to when people slaughter and mass civilian citizens because they're evil.

0 (45m 27s):
So here's Yav Gallant, he's the defense minister of Israel saying this yesterday.

18 (45m 31s):
We are not gonna stop till we, we eliminate all of them, all levels of command and lower. The enemy has two options only either to die or to give up surrender without any conditions.

0 (45m 50s):
Okay? That is right. Meanwhile Hassana Raah, who is the head of Hezbollah, he was supposed to make his first sort of live in-person appearance in Lebanon in years because he'd been hiding in a, in a bunker somewhere while he watched his people get killed on the northern, on the northern border of Israel for a very long time. He didn't, he gave his speech, he was a recorded speech from a sewer somewhere. And in his speech he of course called the attacks on Israel heroic. So just a reminder, Hezbollah is an Iranian back terror group armed with 150,000 rockets minimum pointed into the north of Israel, which is why there are currently 30,000 Israelis were not living in their homes in Northern Israel. The big question of the day was gonna be whether Hassan and Nasrallah led off a new Hezbollah led war. My prediction had always been that that would not happen because Hezbollah understands that, especially with two American aircraft carriers stationed off the coast.

0 (46m 33s):
If they start a war in Israel's North, they just will not exist. It'll be bloody and horrible for Israel and also Lebanon will be destroyed because Israel will be stretched and Israel will have to do whatever it has to do to maintain the safety of its own citizens. So NRA is basically mouthing off from what I can tell at this point. He's gonna continue to try to draw forces north away from the Gaza Strip, but it seems unlikely that he's going to push too hard to that, that he is gonna push too hard to go directly into war. So that is the, that is the situation in terms of Israel and the Palestinians and Hezbollah and all the rest. We'll see how it develops over the weekend. Meanwhile in the house of the United States government, there has been a, a vast disagreement about how to fund Israel.

0 (47m 18s):
So you have the Biden administration, which is trying to lump together a bunch of things. They're trying alums together. Ukraine aid, they want 60 billion more dollars in Ukraine aid, some $14 billion in aid to Israel a few billion dollars for border security and like $7 billion for Taiwan. And they're trying to lump all that together in $105 billion package. Well, Mike Johnson, the new speaker of the house, he pushed forward and then passed an Israel only bill. And the Israel only aid bill is just aid to Israel and he does it by taking money away from the IRS. Now, the Democrats are claiming, of course, that this is a poison pill. This house proposal is going nowhere. Basically, what we have now is a game of chicken. The game of chicken is that the Democrats are hoping to wrong foot the Republicans by getting them not to fund Israel in favor of not funding Ukraine.

0 (47m 58s):
And the Republicans are trying to wrong foot Democrats by saying, guys, why can't you just give a directly to Israel? Obviously, I'm on the right wing side of that argument. I don't understand why these issues are the same. They're not the battle in Ukraine. I'm fully in favor, by the way, of continuing to pride to Ukraine, the A, to maintain its own security inside of the post 2014 borders. I say post 2014, because right now Ukraine is trying to push into the Donbas and Crimea. I'd be fully in favor of them doing that if there's an actual possibility of them winning. They've shown over the course of the last year that that probably is not a possibility, and in fact, that's extraordinarily unlikely. In fact, Ukrainian ministers are now saying that's extraordinarily unlikely. So the question becomes what the end of that war looks like. That doesn't mean that you're in favor of undermining Ukrainian security.

0 (48m 39s):
Ukrainian should be funded to the point where it can certainly prevent U Russia from, from doing this again. Plus, I'm very much in favor of degrading the Russian military capacity since they're aggressive on every front they can find, including in the Middle East. So drawing Russian resources into battle in Don Basar Crimea is fine with me. I don't have a generalized problem with that, but $60 billion, a lot of money. Okay? So that is a different issue, and it's a slightly more complex issue than the issue of funding Israel and attempting to exterminate a, an actual terror group Hamas, which it can do and is achievable, very achievable. Okay? So separating off the two causes makes a lot of sense, but both sides are now accusing each other of putting poison pills in their bills to wrong foot. The other, but poison pill for the Republicans is apparently that they're trying to defund the IRS in order to do this.

0 (49m 22s):
The Democrats are mad about that. Here was Chuck Schumer saying that

19 (49m 26s):
The Democratic majority leader has already declared his verdict on the proposal.

20 (49m 31s):
The house GOP proposal is not going anywhere. It's, it's, it's, it's gonna, it's dead before it even is voted on.

0 (49m 41s):
Okay? So he says that's going nowhere. But the question is gonna be whether the reverse is true, whether the senate proposal, which is the giant $105 billion proposal, whether that gets rejected by the house. And so basically we now have a game of chicken. As I say, I think the next step for Mike Johnson is probably to disconnect the Israel aid from the IRS defunding, right? I, I think that that, again would wrong for Democrats. And it's like, okay, fine. You, you don't want us to, you love your IRS so much, fine. We'll just take that out and, and here's the Israel aid. Just pass it. No poison pills, nothing like a clean Israel aid bill. That'd be very hard for Democrats to reject. I assume that's the next step that Johnson is gonna take. If in fact, the Senate and President Biden decides to veto Biden has threatened to veto this particular proposal, it'll be interesting to see whether he does veto that particular proposal in favor of we need to cram down aid for Ukraine in the middle of all this.

0 (50m 28s):
Okay? In other non Middle East related news, apparently Sam Bankman free, you remember him, he was the FTX founder who basically built people of billions and billions of dollars like robbed Peter to pay Paul's essentially giant pyramid scheme. Well, a jury has now found Sam Bankman free guilty on all seven criminal accounts against him. The FTX founder faces a maximum sentence of 115 years in prison. Attorney General Merrick Garland said in a statement, Sam Bateman free thought he was above the law. Today's verdict proves that he was wrong. So he was a, he was a person who believed that his political connections were going to allow him to get off scot free. He was the biggest single Democrats donor in the last election cycle.

0 (51m 8s):
Other members of FTX gave some money to Republicans as well. The government flipped a bunch of people against him, including his ex-girlfriend, Caroline Ellison, and the former head of Alameda and FTX co-founder Gary Wang, who's Bankman Free's childhood friend from math camp, both pled guilty in December and then cooperated his witnesses for the prosecution to get off easier. S-C-N-B-C says, the central question for jurors to consider was whether Bankman free acted with criminal intent in taking customer funds from FTX and using that money to pay for real estate venture investments, corporate sponsorships, political donations, and to cover losses at Alameda. After crypto prices plunged last year, there was $10 billion in customer money that went missing. So Bankman freed now awaits sentencing.

0 (51m 51s):
We'll see how long he ends up going to jail. Now, one of the things that's so funny about the whole Sam Bankman free situation was he talked about when the story first broke is that Sam Bankman Freed had built his entire persona around quote unquote effective altruism. And the idea was, if you give a lot of money, if you gimme tons of money, and I spend a lot, I'll spend a lot of that money on politics. I'll spend a lot of that money on the causes that you love most. I'll be really rich, and then I'll spend Now the basic idea, which is that one of the great aspects of capitalism is that when people become rich, they give a lot more charity. That's true. I give a lot more charity now when I make a lot more money than I did 15 years ago, and I made a lot less money. However, the basic hiding behind altruism in order to justify his own business malpractice and his political payoffs and all the rest, was one of Bankman Fried's favorite things.

0 (52m 36s):
And he was made a hero for this. He was put on the cover of magazines. He had Jim Cramer praising him to the skies again. He briefly held the title of the world's richest 30 year old. He had an estimated net worth of $20 billion, and in one ways he distinguished himself from his competitors was how altruistic and magical he was going to be. He was going to, he was going to just spend money on the things that mattered most, and he took a bunch of people in, according to a columnist at CoinDesk, despite the wreck he caused, and the accompanying failure to do good there made numerous voices sympathetic to SBF. Chief among them is well-known author Michael Lewis. Throughout his new book on SBF and FTX going Infinite, he paints a portrait of SBF as a misunderstood Genius whose intentions were Pure on his book tour.

0 (53m 17s):
Lewis continues to say things like, quote, I think of him as a creature of modern finance at almost any period in history. He's like a high school physics teacher. If Lewis's rights as this colonist, he should be inviting modern finance, wholesale, After, all SBF by skipping the effort of honestly earning the money he gave away, never actually performed a genuinely altruistic deeded. See, this is one of the things that people should also notice about altruism when it comes to the business world. We tend to think of business and altruism as an opposition to one another, or as though business is not a form of altruism. If business is done right, it is in fact the best form of altruism. So Maimonides, one of the great Jewish thinkers of all time Maimonides, suggested the highest form of charity was giving somebody a job that was the highest form of charity, not giving them money, giving them a job.

0 (53m 58s):
Why? Because it turns out that the most good that you do for the world is a sustainable method for generating things that are good for other people. You know what we usually call those markets, right? Markets are usually where you generate a sustainable, repeatable method of doing a good thing for another person. If I give charity eventually, if I don't earn more money, the charity runs out. If I give you a job, and that means that you can earn a living and Meanwhile, you're providing me with a good or service that I can use to generate more goods and services, and then I can pay other people and I can buy other things. I've helped many, many more people that way than I would've if I just gave away the money, just giving away the money. In some cases, obviously justified. There are people who can't work. There are people, children, orphans. What this is why the Bible focuses when it talks about these sort of class of people who require charity on widows and orphans.

0 (54m 42s):
Why? Because the idea is that widows are gonna have a hard time earning a living, and orphans don't have anybody to take care of them. What it doesn't focus on are people who are capable of working, and somehow you should give them charity because they, they won't work. Or the idea that that charity is supposed to be specifically designed at, at causes that could be better done in a sustainable way. You wanna talk about sustainability. Markets create sustainability. Charity is generally non-sustainable. This is interesting, for example, socialism and capitalism. Socialism is, how do I redistribute everybody else's money? Capitalism is, how do I create entirely new, entirely new lines of business, thus, to support money earning by millions more people? Which is why when capitalism is tried, it succeeds and when, when socialism, the best you can talk about is with socialism, is redistributing the gains.

0 (55m 25s):
That's all you can talk about. That's why the quote unquote social democratic nations in Northern Europe are very capitalistic in the way they pursue business, and then they just have very, very strong welfare structures on top of that. But it's the entire system. Obviously, were nationalized systems. The entire thing would collapse. It would look like the USSR, which is why it's always been a lie to suggest that countries in Northern Europe are predominantly characterized by their socialism. They're not. They're predominantly characterized by their capitalist business structures. The heads of of the, the government of Denmark have said as much, when you call them socialists, they get annoyed. They're like, what are you, what are you talking about? There's no nationalization of resources here. There's redistribution of some resources at the top level in the same way that they have a mixed economy, in other words, the same as the United States.

0 (56m 6s):
It's just that their mixed economy happens to be significantly smaller. Their, their population tends to be significantly more homogenous, and their redistributive weight tends to be greater. But the, the, the sort of point of Sam Bateman freed is that when you, when you place altruism in differentiation from business, you end up being a bad business person. You end up treating business as though business is the dirty part, and altruism is the good part when that's wrong, I've said this before and I'll say it again. Bill Gates did more for the world by creating Microsoft than he has in giving away his billions of dollars to charity. Why? Because he has led to the employment of probably hundreds of thousands of people, not just directly at Microsoft, but indirectly through his software. That is a massive good to the world.

0 (56m 48s):
And we, we, we tend to think of the only, we judge people based on their intent and the intent. If, if, if your intent is Pure, that means that your action is more beneficent, and that's wrong. That's just not true. If I intend with this $1 donation to do something good, it's just outta my pocket. No benefit to me. Here's $1 I've done significantly less good than we do at this company, which is employed 300 people already. Folks, the rest of the show continues right now, you're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll get into the 2024 race. If you're not a member, become member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months, FREE on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.