ExpressVPN (0s):
Today's show's sponsored by ExpressVPN. Do you like your web history being seen and sold to advertisers? No. Me neither. Get ExpressVPN right now at ExpressVPN dot com slash BEN.

0 (8s):
Last week, Claudine Gay objectively humiliated herself before Congress. She's the president of Harvard. Just to recall her performance, here was some of the highlight reel

1 (16s):
I will ask you one more time. Does calling for the genocide of Jews violate Harvard's rules of bullying and harassment? Yes or no?

2 (27s):
Anti-Semitic rhetoric when it crosses

1 (29s):
Into crime, and is it anti-Semitic rhetoric,

2 (31s):
Anti-Semitic rhetoric when it crosses into conduct that amounts to bullying, harassment, intimidation that is actionable conduct and we do take action.

1 (42s):
So the answer is yes. That calling for the genocide of Jews violates Harvard code of conduct, correct?

2 (51s):
Again, it depends on the context. It does

1 (54s):
Not depend on the context. The answer is yes, and this is why you should resign.

0 (60s):
Okay, so that was Harvard's esteemed president, again, failing to simply state that calling for genocide of Jews was in violation of Harvard's speech policies. Instead, Claudine gay supposedly clung to free speech violation of which is constant and ever present at Harvard. Here, for example, is an excerpt from Harvard's Mandatory Title IX training session for undergraduate students. It contains a quote, power and control wheel that helps students identify harmful conduct. It says quote around the edge of the power and control wheel. You'll notice attitudes, beliefs and systems like racism, sexism, misogyny, ableism, transphobia and xenophobia. These apparently quote, contribute to an environment that perpetuates violence. You don't even recognize some of these terms, cis heterosexism, which is the idea that being cisgender, meaning a boy who knows he is a boy and heterosexual and believing that's the norm is somehow a form of discrimination according to one of the presented scenarios in the Title IX training.

0 (1m 52s):
Quote ha Andress repeated using the wrong pronouns, commenting about Logan's appearance, making remarks about Logan's gender identity contribute to a climate of disrespect and may also violate Harvard's policy. So if you say a man is a man, you may be violating Harvard's policies. If you say death to the Jews. Well context dependent. This is the same university you'll recall that banned prospective adminy, Kyle cashew the Parkland High School for sending texts that included the N word in them when he was 16 years old. But clouding gay is all about free speech for the Jew haters. Again, the only way to explain all of this is that it is part and parcel of the equity hierarchy established by the academic left over the course of at least two generations.

0 (2m 33s):
Some groups under this rubric are more equal than other groups and clouding gay is part of the privileged elite. She's one of those groups. That is why she is unlike Liz McGill over at Penn Unhireable. Liz McGill is white clouding. Gay is black, that means clouding gay cannot be fired. This week Chris Ruffo and Erin Siberian and other journalists uncovered vast evidence of gay's alleged plagiarism from her PhD dissertation to other multiple published papers, multiple professors who were plagiarized who've now come forward to condemn and gay's plagiarism. That includes Miami University Professor Anne Williamson who said quote, it does look like plagiarism to me. If they're gonna do what they did, I should be cited as a reference. My first reaction is shock. The second is puzzlement. All she had to do is gimme credit.

0 (3m 13s):
Carol Swain, another scholar, gay, allegedly plagiarized, said quote, what is bothering me is not just that there's passages she didn't put in quotation marks. When I look at her work, I feel like her whole research agenda, her whole career was based on my work. So it actually went a lot further. She said quote, she became president of Harvard and got recognition as being its first black president. I don't believe her record warranted tenure. I believe I had to meet a much higher standard than she did. It's clear to me standards were lowered in the mid 1990s and the elites came together and decided they were going to defend affirmative action. It's clear to me she was a beneficiary of that. I blame her committee and I blame white progressives equally. Swain who is black concluded, quote, white progressives have always rewarded the blacks who supported their ideas. A white male would probably already be gone. That of course is exactly right, but not at Harvard where the board has full scale.

0 (3m 57s):
Defendant Claudine Gay saying they did a full investigation into the plagiarism allegations as soon as they received wind of them back in October. But here's the thing, even that was apparently a lie. Equity has to be upheld at all costs, particularly at the cost of the truth. Truth is just not a value to the radical left. It turns out that the university once hit with plagiarism allegations against gay back in October, didn't investigate. Instead they went into full defense mode. According to the New York Post quote, Harvard University covered up a high level investigation into whether its controversial. President was a plagiarist and used an expensive law firm to threaten the post over our own probe. The post contacted the university on October 24th asking for comments on more than two dozen instances in which gay's words appeared to closely parallel words, phrases, or sentences in published works by other academics.

0 (4m 42s):
When the post brought the allegations to Harvard, Jonathan Swain, its senior executive director of media relations and communications, asked for more times, reviews GA to review gay's work. A day later, Swain, who's part of the Biden Harris transition team and a one-time, Hillary Clinton aid said he would quote, get back in touch over the next couple of days, but he didn't. Two days later on October 27th, the post was instead sent a 15 page letter by Thomas Claire, a high powered Virginia based attorney with the firm Claire Locke, who identified himself as defamation counsel for Harvard University and Gay. So there is a tacit threat issued to the New York Post. Not to print a story about gay's alleged plagiarism because of defamation concerns. Harvard must defend the precious gay is the perfect emblem of equity.

0 (5m 26s):
An underqualified black woman who's been elevated particularly because of that status to the presidency of the nation's most storied university. She is too woke to fail because if she fails, what does that say about the entire Potemkin village of diversity, equity, and inclusion? We'll get to that in just one second.

Pure Talk (5m 43s):
First, Pure Talk has you covered for the holidays. They're gonna give you a free Moto G 5G phone, no gimmick, no trade necessary. Just sign up for Pure Talk unlimited talk, unlimited text, and 15 gigs of data. You get all of that for just 35 bucks. You'll get the Moto G 5G phone for free. But here's the deal, you need to move fast because these phones are almost gone. So if your current phone is on life support, upgrade for free with Pure Talk, the new Moto. GE 5G boasts a two day battery life, an exceptional quad pixel camera and a whole lot more. Pure Talk gives you America's most dependable 5G network at half the price. So make that switch today. Just go to Pure Talk dot com slash SHAPIRO. Get this exclusive offer. Select the plan that's right for your family. Remember Pure Talk gives you America's most Dependable 5G network at half the price and I've been using Pure Talk for a couple of years at this point. They have a great Tower network, same as one of the big guys. Make the switch today. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro claim. Your are free Moto G 5G phone with qualifying plan. Again, that is Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Pure Talk is simply Smarter Wireless. Check them out once more at Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro and claim your free Moto G 5G phone with a qualifying plan.

0 (6m 46s):
Okay, so why can't clouding gay be fired? Well, because if she were fired, it might undermine the DI principle and Harvard is a university totally reliant on DEI, diversity, equity and inclusion principles as gay herself said in a statement after the Supreme Court throughout affirmative action as unconstitutional. Quote, the fundamental principle that deep and transformative teaching, learning and research depend upon a community comprising people of many backgrounds, perspectives and lived experiences. That principle is as true and important today as it was yesterday. So too are the abiding values that have enabled us and every great educational institution to pursue the high calling of educating creative thinkers and bold leaders of deepening human knowledge and of promoting progress justice in human flourishing.

0 (7m 29s):
Now Harvard doesn't mean that in terms of ideas, of course there's like two registered Republicans at the entirety of Harvard. It is wildly stacked to the left. The entire faculty of Harvard might have a dozen professors who voted Republican in the last election cycle maybe. So what does Harvard mean in terms of diversity? They mean it in terms of race. This is why according to the Harvard Crimson, in an analysis of the period 1995 to 2013, that is an 18 year period, Asian Americans admitted to Harvard earned an average SAT score of 7 67 across all sections. That is an average of 1534 an average. Okay? That means that there are a ton of Asian students who are getting a 1600, which is the maximum.

0 (8m 11s):
If you look at the chart that I've put up here, again, this is from the Harvard Crimson. Look at that red line. It is so far and away above every other race. It's insane. Meanwhile, white admits they were forced to earn an average of 7 45 across all sections. That of course would be a 1490, a very, very high score. Hispanics, however, had to earn an average of seven 18. That's a 1436 black admits come in dead last even after Native American admits they had to earn an average of 7 0 4 or a 1408 on the SAT. That is the average SAT score. Remember, that is not the top SAT score. That is not the bottom SAT score. That is the average SAT score, In other words. The average Harvard Asian American had to outperform the average black admit tea at Harvard by 126 points to get in.

0 (8m 58s):
I promise you by the way, that the spread on Asian American admits does not go all the way down to 1300. It's not as though there are a bunch of Asian Americans who got in with a 1300, but if you have a 1408 black average, that means there are a lot of black students who got in with a 1300 and some that got in with a 1500. For context, a 1408 is below the average SAT score foree at every top university in the United States. It's below the average at every top university like pick university ranked number 20. It's below the average EE at that university. The only way to justify this sort of racism is to suggest that there are other benefits that come to Harvard from admitting people who are black other than difference of perspective and and SAT score 'cause lower SAT scores and also not a different perspective.

0 (9m 45s):
What are those other benefits? Well, the unspoken assumption is that a racially diverse student body or faculty or administration is self-justifying. Now, why would racial quotas be self-justifying? There's only one reason because meritocracy itself is supposedly unjust and wrong and racist. You are doing something good merely by putting people of various skin colors in a room together because if you were to adjudicate based on merit, that would be inherently bad. It's not that the groom that is more diverse is inherently good. It's that the thing that that opposes the meritocracy is inherently bad and that is precisely the proposition that Harvard puts forward. This is why mines everywhere are boggling at Harvard. The apex of the supposed American meritocracy, right?

0 (10m 26s):
You only get into Harvard if you're high achiever. I mean, I got into Harvard law, it's because I got a 1 76 on my lsat. It is not because I was promoting diversity of viewpoint. They didn't care about that. This is why people are freaking out that Harvard, again, supposed to be about, about the meritocracy, is now promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion in the face of merit and In fact. Make clear that if you are part of a higher achieving group, this makes you an oppressor who can be and should be discriminated against. But of course, that's what universities have been promoting for decades. Clouding gay is the natural consequence of that perversity. This is why Derek Johnson of the NAACP has now tweeted, quote, enough is enough. Harvard President clouding Gay is a distinguished scholar and professor with decades of service in higher education.

0 (11m 8s):
The recent attacks on her leadership are nothing more than political theatrics advancing a white supremacist agenda. Black America isn't buying into your game and we sure won't stand for your perpetuation of misogynoir. Misogynoir, by the way, is a fake term that was coined in the nineties to refer to discrimination against black women. According to the president of the naacp, pointing out that gay participated in precisely the same activity that got Liz McGill fired, Liz McGill's White. That's now racist. Even though gay is guilty probably of plagiarism and Liz McGill is not, but Liz McGill got fired, gay will not be. Why? Because clouding gay again is black. Plagiarism is just now another front for racism.

0 (11m 48s):
According to the DEI left any meritocratic system, any colorblind system is now a front for racism. If it has disproportionate effects according to the equity crowd, whether it's SAT scores or grades or criminal law or drug law or free speech or property rights, this is the game rig. The game in favor of those who underachieve pretending that underachievement is the fault of the meritocracy itself and therefore giving benefits to those who underachieve is an attempt to break the racist system. And then when you're challenged, you claim that those who are pointing out shortcomings and failures, those people are racist and representatives of the corrupt and exploitative pseudo meritocratic hierarchy, DEI is a cult philosophy.

0 (12m 29s):
It is false but utterly unfalsifiable because it's rooted in the core belief that if you oppose DEI, you're a bigot. And so there's no way to oppose DEI. That is the game that Derek Johnson is playing when he attacks Bill Ackman, the private equity guru in Harvard alum who's been trying to fight anti-Semitism on campus. Ackman has been attacking anti-Semitism on campus at Harvard and MIT at UPenn. Well, Johnson is now accusing Ackman who is a Democrat by the way of being a racist. Here's Johnson quote, Ackman's statement on President Gay and equating diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives to modern day McCarthyism have nothing to do with combating anti-Semitism rather says Johnson Ackman is choosing to inflame anti woke culture wars against the most visible black woman he could target.

0 (13m 13s):
Yes, according to the DEI friendly to bow to Bill Ackman, again a major democratic donor would be to bow to racism. Johnson is now even calling for a boycott against the businesses in which Ackman invests businesses. By the way, with a bevy of black employees, quote, Ackman can be held accountable for his actions, his hedge fund. Pershing Square is a major investor in Chipotle, Lowe's, Popeye's, and Burger King, among other major consumer brands. Black women have the power to decide whether these brands should continue to earn their patronage and the boards and employees of these companies can speak up as well. The DEI lie has to be upheld at all costs if it falls. So too is the theory that American meritocracy is itself evil and that is the core theory.

0 (13m 56s):
That is the theory that lies at the root of the left's ideological revolution. It undergirds their support for everything from radical transpos to the Black Lives Matter movement to Hamas. Everyone who is unsuccessful in life is victims of a meritocratic movement that is actually not about merit, it's actually about racism. That is the core principle of diversity, equity, and inclusion. DEI is a cancer, but that cancerous tumor can't simply be removed because it's too late. It's metastasized throughout our universities, across our body politics. It has to be hit with societal chemotherapy. A vast and destructive measure that will indeed cripple many of America's top institutions And should, in just one second, we'll get to the latest on the war in Ukraine where the Biden administration, again is playing this weird political game.

0 (14m 40s):
They don't need to play first.

Policy Genius (14m 42s):
you know, you can plot at any time and it's, it's just a a sad reality of life. I mean you can just be out with your son on the street buying oranges and suddenly some dude comes up to you and puts seven bullets in you sso and you at that point you're thinking, man, I really should have taken out a life insurance policy with PolicyGenius. PolicyGenius makes it easy to compare life insurance quotes from top companies and find your lowest price. Their licensed agents work for you, not the insurance companies, which means you can trust their guidance 'cause they don't have an incentive to recommend one insurer over another. There are no added fees. Your personal information is kept private. We have life insurance in my fam. I have life insurance, my wife has life insurance. It's an important thing to have. It's a satisfying thing to check life insurance off your to-do list. A good life insurance plan can give you peace of mind that if something happens to you, your family will be able to cover mortgage payments, college costs, or other expenses. Life insurance through your workplace might not offer enough protection for your family's needs. It's not gonna follow you. If you do leave your job with PolicyGenius, you can find life insurance policy starting at just 292 bucks per year for a million dollars in coverage. Some options offer same day approval and avoid those unnecessary medical exams. Your family deserves peace of mind and life insurance policy through PolicyGenius can help give them that peace. Go to policygenius.com/ Shapiro or click the link in the description, Get your free life insurance quote. see how much you could save. Don't leave it Fredo, do it yourself. Go to policygenius.com/ Shapiro.

0 (15m 57s):
Okay. Meanwhile, the Biden administration is still futsing around on the Ukraine war. I don't understand the political posturing here. I will never understand the political posturing here. It doesn't make any sense to me. So Vladimir Zelensky, the Ukrainian president, visited the White House on Tuesday. He was attempting to garner support for more funding for the Ukraine War. Of course, Zelensky has been over promising he and the rest of NATO allies that they've been promising that an offensive against Russia would end up winning back the Donbass region as well as Crimea. And none of that has happened because basically you now have World War I trench warfare accompanied by a lot of drones.

0 (16m 37s):
And so nothing is going to change along those borders. And so people had an outsized perception of what was possible in this area, which means that on the pushback, Vladimir Putin now has a bit of an advantage. Now, that doesn't mean that Vladimir Putin hasn't been absolutely crippled by this war. He has, according to a new report from CNN national security correspondent Katie Bois, who is herself reporting on a newly declassified US intelligence report, quote, some pretty staggering numbers, 360,000 troops Russia sent into Ukraine initially and then made up their entire standing ground force prior to the invasion. Of that 360,000 troops, 315,000 were lost on the battlefield. That is an 87% loss of Russia's standing ground forces before the invasion.

0 (17m 20s):
Now Russia has been relying on, for example, the Wagner Group and a a bunch of other sort of private militias in order to fill that gap. They've been conscripting people in large numbers. The basic Putin theory here is outlast the West and it's possible that he can outlast the West because the West number one has not made clear in off ramp. Every war where the West does not make clear on off ramp is a war that they end up losing. And two, it is possible he cannot lasts the West because the Democrats are, are apparently more interested in political game than even in, in providing the funding that is necessary to Ukraine. They, they would rather blame Republicans for not getting the funding than actually get the funding. That seems to be the pattern here.

0 (18m 1s):
So Chuck Schumer was out there stumping for more aid to Ukraine. He said he was quoting Zelensky and saying that Russia is gonna win here.

3 (18m 9s):
President Zelinsky made it so clear how he needs help, but if he gets the help he can win this war. and he outlined in some great detail, a the kind of help he needs and how it will help him win. Even many of our Republican colleagues talked about, we, we are winning this war and if we get the help that if he gets the help he needs, he will win. On the other hand, he made it clear and we all made it clear that if we lose Putin wins,

0 (18m 41s):
Okay, but I don't understand what you mean by wins and loses. So let's say that the borders stay where they are, that is what you Ukraine is winning. The United States won. Okay? The first of all, as always, the United States has interest distinct from those of any other country. Israel's interests are not always the United States interests. Ukraine's interests are not always the United States interests. We are a nation with our own national interest, obviously. Well, when it comes to the Ukraine War, the American national interest was in crippling the Russian military to prevent it from fighting future wars against NATO allies and breaking the NATO alliance. And for those who are sort of there, there's this weird pattern that happens now that I've seen in foreign policy, which is when a nefarious power does a bad thing, we then immediately blame the institution that was standing in the way when the drunk driver hits the old lady crossing the street with then blame the old lady for having been there.

0 (19m 26s):
It's really weird. So when Hamas attacks Israeli citizens in the Gaza envelope, it's like, well, why were they even there? Should Israel even exist? don don't even know. When it comes to Russia invading Ukraine, it's like, well, should, why? Why do we need nato? Because Russia does things like invade Ukraine. That would be the reason why you need NATO and Georgia and ca like and a bunch of other areas. And in any case, the bottom line here is that Russia has already lost heavy in terms of its military. It has been crippled economically, it has been crippled militarily. The United States has already achieved its goal right there. So what exactly is the end goal? And this is where the Biden administration is not even articulating an end goal.

0 (20m 6s):
They're making it political. Instead they're like, well, as long as it takes with whatever it takes, and if you oppose it, you love Putin. And also we're not gonna give you border security to even get what we want out of this. That looks like politicing. It doesn't look like you care very much what happens in Ukraine actually, if you, if you hold that position, it's very similar to the anti-global warming position that also says we, we don't want nuclear power. It's like, well if you, if you don't want carbon emissions, you need nuclear power. Well, if you want Ukraine funding, you need border funding, you need changes to border law like these. These two things are a package, and yet the Democrats need more interested in the virtue signaling than the actual funding for the thing they say they want. The Ukraine funding, we'll get to that momentarily first.

Beam (20m 42s):
The holidays are here. The last thing you need during this busy time of yours to miss out on a great night's sleep. That is why my team uses Beams Dream Powder Beam's Dream Powder contains a powerful all natural blend of ingredients, including magnesium, l-theanine. It's not just your run of the mill sleep aid. It's concoction carefully crafted to help you slip into the sweet embrace of rest without the grogginess that often accompanies other sleep remedies. Sleep is the foundation of our mental and physical health. You have to have a consistent nighttime routine to function at your best. Today my listeners get a special discount on Beam's Dream powder. It's their bestselling hot cocoa for sleep with no added sugar. Now available in delicious flavors like cinnamon, cocoa, chocolate, peanut butter, and mint chip. Better sleep has never tasted better. Just mix beam dream into hot water or milk stir or froth and enjoy before bedtime. You find yourself battling those bedtime blues. Give it a shot your weary self. Well, thank you. If you wanna try Beam's bestselling Dream powder, take advantage of their biggest sale of the year, get up to 40% off and a free frother for a limited time. When you go to shop beam dot com slash BEN discount auto apply to check out no code necessary, that's shop BEAM dot com slash BEN for up to 40% off plus a free frother, go check them out right now. That's shop beam dot com slash BEN for the special deal.

0 (21m 47s):
Okay, so again, there is confusion that is raining at the White House on Ukraine policy. On the one hand they say, we want all the funding and want it forever, and on the other hand they say, and we're gonna give up nothing in order to achieve this. So John Kirby from the National Security Advisory, he says, we want Ukraine supported quote as long as it takes. Well then why don't you explain what exactly it's you want do. Do you mean you want to support Ukraine as long as it takes for Russia not to invade the rest of Ukraine? Because I agree with that. If what you mean is as long as it takes to free Don Bass and Crimea, I don't agree with that because that's the thing that's not going to happen In the absence of simply Sing Ukraine tremendous air power, it's not going to happen to change the situation on the ground.

0 (22m 27s):
Here's John Kirby not articulating the endpoint.

4 (22m 30s):
When asked how long US support for Ukraine will continue, he says, as long as it takes over and over and over again, was he wrong?

5 (22m 38s):
No In fact, that's still his intention. Phil, we want to be able to support Ukraine for as long as it takes. Now obviously we'd all love this war to be over tomorrow if it could be in terms that are acceptable to the Ukrainian people, but Mr. Putin shows absolutely no desire in ending this war, sitting down and negotiating at all. In fact, quite the contrary, he's now attacking energy infrastructure with missiles and drones trying to weaponize winter and we know that his forces on the ground are trying to go on an offensive in the East, so there's no indication that he's slowing down. If Ukraine stops fighting, that's the end of Ukraine.

0 (23m 10s):
Well it, it's not about Ukraine stopping the fighting, it's about what exactly they're fighting over. Is it more territory in that on bass or crimee? If so, don't see exactly what you're off around periods. But again, I think a lot of this is now about posturing. So Joe Biden yesterday, he was speaking about Ukraine and he was like, well done Republicans, the Russians love you.

6 (23m 28s):
You know, we need to fully appreciate, fully appreciate how it's wrong, how this is being viewed around the world and being used by Russia. Russian loyalist in Moscow celebrated when re, when Republicans voted to block Ukraine's aid last week, the host of a Kremlin run show literally said, and I quote, well done Republicans, that's good for us. End of quote. Lemme say that again. This host of a Kremlin run show said, well done Republicans, that's good for us. That's a Russian speaking. If you're being celebrated by a Russian propagandist, it might be time to rethink what you're doing.

0 (24m 13s):
Okay? Or you could, you know, make a deal with the Republicans who do control the house and are halfsies with you on the Senate. You could do that thing, but you're not doing that thing. And so instead we now have an impasse. Again, this makes no political sense to me. Joe Biden won in 2020, at least the Democratic primaries and probably the presidency because his appearance was that of a moderate, not because he ran to his hard left. He did not. He ran directly toward the middle. That was his entire pitch was I'm an old person and I'm not going to do anything transformational. Then of course he went into office and he started putting equity all over the federal government and he started spending unprecedented amounts of money and he undermined our national security by withdrawing in Afghanistan and all the rest that you know.

0 (24m 54s):
But the thing that won him election last time was his supposed moderation, and now he's running directly away from that and Republicans are offering him an off ramp right here, Republicans, by basically saying to him, Hey, you know what? Why don't you change border law and then we'll give you the Ukraine aid. They're offering him a win-win. He can now go back to his left of space and say, listen, I didn't wanna do anything about the border, but Republicans forced me to it. And then he can go to middle America and say, Hey, I did something about the border. Right? That is something he could do, but he's not doing it, which means that he's held hostage by his left wing base, which is a weird thing to be held hostage by. Again, one of the issues where Donald Trump is going to hammer the living crap out of him. If Trump is the nominee, which we presume he will be given the polls at this point, if Trump is the nominee, it doesn't even matter if, if it's, if it's dis San Haley, if will hammer him over the border.

0 (25m 36s):
Him being able to say, I changed border policy to try to stop the flood at the border would be a smart thing. It would be smart. It would defray some of the cost of his crap border policy so far. But he is not doing any of that. So Mitch McConnell, who again is pro funding for Ukraine, he said, look, a deal is practically impossible if you're not gonna budge on the border.

7 (25m 55s):
Oh, I have said is practically impossible, even though we reach an agreement to craft it, get it through the Senate, get it through the house before Christmas, that doesn't mean it's not important. And even though we've been emphasizing the border, I want to remind everybody of the importance of U Ukraine,

0 (26m 19s):
Okay? I mean, again, McConnell wants Ukraine funding and even he is saying there's no deal without border. Meanwhile, speaker of the house, Mike Johnson, he says, yeah, we're gonna need the border first. I mean, what? Why is this so hard?

8 (26m 31s):
But don don't think it is a, a radical proposition to say that if we're going to have a national security supplemental package, it ought to begin with our own national security first. And and so I'll explain to him that while we understand that I've made my position very clear literally since the day I was handed the gavel that we have to take care of our border first.

0 (26m 52s):
Well, I mean, again, this is a very consensus position in the United States. We don't like our border being open. We don't like fentanyl being smuggled over the border. We don't like any of that stuff and saying, sure, we'll give you Ukraine more funding to prevent Russia from overrunning it, but also we're gonna need to solidify our own border. Why is that the fact that this is even remotely controversial for Democrats? I want to know the counter argument. What is the counter argument right here? All they can say, I mean honestly, all they can say is, we wish you were part of a separate bill. Why? So they could reject the border aid and then they could pass the Ukraine aid, but they should just pass both. Right? Here's Democratic Senator Mark Kelly's from Arizona, which is a border state, and even he's saying like, yeah, we need some changes on the border. But you know, in homage to Joe Biden, I'm gonna pretend these two things should be separated.

9 (27m 35s):
We have provided more support for border patrol, we need to do more. The president's supplemental had funding in there for border patrol agents, asylum officers, judges. These are the things we agree on. We're talking about Ukraine aid, Israel, humanitarian assistance funding for Indo Paycom with a future issues with China. Let me leave it at at at that. For this to be caught up in the politics of the border would be a mistake.

0 (28m 8s):
Why? Why is it caught up in the politic? Just, just do the thing. Well, the White House is making some signals. It might do the thing. So maybe reason is starting to penetrate there. You always wonder, according to CBS news, the Biden administration on Tuesday indicated to congressional lawmakers who'd be willing to support a new border authority to expel migrants without asylum screenings, as well as a dramatic expansion of immigration detention and deportations to convince Republicans to back AIDS Ukraine for people familiar with the matter told C BSS News, the White House informed Senate Democrats, it could back those sweeping and hardline immigration policy changes as part of the negotiations over Biden's emergency funding request, a roughly $100 billion package that includes military h Ukraine, Israel and Taiwan. During a press conference at the White House on Tuesday, Biden said that his team is working with tenant Democrats and Republicans to try to find a bipartisan compromise, both in terms of changes in policy and to provide resources we need to secure the border.

0 (28m 59s):
Apparently Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas has been deployed to engage with negotiators in the Senate this week. Specifically the White House has indicated it would support a new FAR-reaching legal authority to allow us border officials to summarily expel migrants without processing their asylum claims. That measure would effectively revive Title 42. You remember Title 42 and basically said, listen, we got covid here, we're not gonna let you in, just go away. It would allow officials to pause US Asylum law without a public health justification. The administration would also back a nationwide expansion of a process known as expedited removal that allows immigration officials to deport migrants without court hearings. If they don't ask for asylum or if they fail their initial asylum interviews, that program is currently limited to the border region.

0 (29m 39s):
Moreover, the White House would be willing to mandate, mandate the detention of certain migrants who are allowed into the country pending the adjudication of their claims, which by the way, would amount to wait for wait fart kids in cages. Why? Because it would amount to having families who are held in detention, but kids are not allowed to be held in detention and so they would be exited, and so you would end up with either kids in cages with their families or you would end up with kids separated from their parents who are in the cages, right? The, there's no easy way to do this without just closing the border, which is the thing that the Biden administration is not willing to do. With that said, these are actual concessions. Republicans should obviously ratchet those concessions the way that they want, and if the White House is willing to sign onto it, it'll actually be a good political move for them.

0 (30m 22s):
I would not count on them making a good political move, however, because they're politically incompetent, which brings us to the latest from the Israel Hamas war. So yesterday Joe Biden stepped in the dodoo and then had to have his nightmares clean it up. So yesterday he was speaking at APAC, apparently, or at the home of, of APAC president, former APAC president, Les Rosenberg, and he said that Israel was losing international support in its war against Kamas. So first of all, who gives a flying international support? Now, Abba Ibin, who's the former UN ambassador from Israel, he said that if there were un resolution, that the earth was flat and that Israel had flattened it, it would pass 163 to 13 with 20 abstentions.

0 (31m 7s):
I mean, that's basically what happened. Like yesterday, the UN General Assembly had a resolution calling for a ceasefire in Gaza. It was supported like 1 63. There were 10 votes against and like 13 abstentions. So who cares what the UN has the international community? Woo. The international community. Oh no, what are the French gonna say? Woo. Like why would Israel stop killing the terrorists they need to kill in order to preserve their own security? Because, because Sudan is upset, by the way, Sudan's not even upset with them because, and pick a country that didn't vote in favor of the non ceasefire. Why? Why would Israel be like super? Oh my gosh. Oh no. What are we going to do if China doesn't support us killing terrorists in the Gaza Strip?

0 (31m 48s):
Ridiculous, ridiculous kind of stuff. So what, what exactly was his warning? He said that Netanyahu quote has to change this government. The government in Israel is making it very difficult. He said, ultimately, Israel can't say no to a Palestinian state, which Israeli hardliners oppose. He said, we have an opportunity to begin to unite the region and they still wanna do it, but we have to make sure Bebe understands he's gotta make some moves to strengthen. You can't say no to a Palestinian state. That's going to be the hard part. The times of Israel reported that Biden said quote, Netanyahu is a good friend, but I believe he needs to change. That would be referring to his coalition partners. Those would Belo Morich, Imar BEN, some members of the right wing block in his coalition. Biden said, quote, one of the things Bebe understands that Israel security can rest on the United States, but right now it has more than the United States.

0 (32m 30s):
It has the eu, it has Europe. It has one most of the world's supporting them, but they're starting to lose that support by indiscriminate bombing that takes place again, he's such, he's such a Dullard. Israel is not indiscriminately bombing Gaza. If Israel were indiscriminately bombing Gaza, you would not be talking about 17, 18,000 people dead in Gaza. A huge percentage of them terrorists. You'd be talking about hundreds of thousands of people dead if Israel were indiscriminately bombing in Gaza. Israel has so far dropped approximately 22,000 bombs. Approximately 17,000 people have been killed according to Hamas, the statistics, which means that for every bomb drop 0.77 people are being killed. Maybe you don't know how bombs work. Typically bombs kill more than 0.77 people when they're dropped in populated areas. Israel's been deliberately avoiding exactly that, so it's not indiscriminate.

0 (33m 12s):
It's ridiculous language from Biden and his team had to walk it back yesterday. The other thing that's ridiculous is Biden and the left continuing to play this game as though policy would be wildly different if the government were made up of somebody that didn't include Salmo Rich and Itar Ben Gavir. This is a holdover from the judicial, from the judicial reform nonsense in Israel, is that, oh my gosh, if we're just a different government, well, that that government would be so much more conciliatory toward the terrorist Palestinian authority. Nope. Nope. Because first of all, guess who's in the government right now? It's a unity government. Benny Gonz is part of the government. Guiza is part of the government. Like you have to not know anything about Israeli politics to suggest that right now, the drivers of the bus when it comes to the war cabinet in Israel are Itamar, Ben Kavir and Patala morich.

0 (33m 53s):
It's not true. It's not even remotely true. It's it's stupid. It's like, it's the equivalent of saying that right now, the people who have the most weight inside the Biden administration are Mike Johnson and Mitch McConnell. Nope. It turns out that in this Unity wartime cabinet, the people who have the most say right now are people like Benny Gonz, who's the leader of the opposition party. So what net so, so what Biden here is saying ridiculous, obviously, and, and again, he keeps saying these stupid things in the belief that if he sort of takes a middle road position that he's gonna win supporters on all sides, which he's not going to. Just words of the wise. When you take a political position that pleases no one, it tends to please no one, and that's kinda what Joe Biden is doing right

Good Ranchers (34m 37s):
now. First, what do Green Eggs in your Holiday family dinner have in common? They need Ham. You can get a spiral cut heritage pork masterpiece from Good Ranchers for free with any good rancher subscription that is whopping $99 value you can get for free on your first order. Now listen, I'm gonna have to take all your word for how good Ham is. Never tasted it. Don't know. I hear from my producers savvy in particular that Ham is amazing, but you have to subscribe to any box and you'll get your free Holiday Ham included in any order. The subscription, by the way, is awesome. You get 25 bucks off every order, a free gift in every third box and free shipping on express delivery. Good Ranchers has something for every meat eater in your life. They've got award-winning boxes full of steakhouse quality American meat. They've sent boxes to all my producers. They can't stop talking about the quality of the steak and chicken. They also sent me kosher salmon from their wild caught seafood box. Yes, I'm the sole recipient of their kosher beneficence, and I'll tell you, it was really good. The best part is knowing exactly where your meat comes from. A local American farm, head on over to good Ranchers dot com. Subscribe today with Code Shapiro claim. You are free limited stock Holiday Ham before those sell out. Act fast. The offer's not gonna last forever. Head on over to good Ranchers dot com. Use Coach Shapiro when you subscribe, get your free 10 pound Holiday Ham. Don't settle for that same old Holiday fair. Elevate your feasts with good Ranchers this year. Good Ranchers is American Meat delivered

Daily Wire Plus (35m 47s):
also. You've heard me talk about how the elites think making Western society adopt multiculturalism is the only solution when In fact, it is the root cause of its breakdown. Our society is actively in a self-flagellating identity crisis. It is no wonder we are seeing so much civil unrest and authoritarianism on the left. Basic notions of right and wrong justice, truth, reality thrown out the window. Some would say the world is coming to an end. How should we make sense of this man? As well, you should join Jonathan Pacho in the new four-part series end of the World as he explains why the world as we know it is ending, how to survive it and how we can plant the seeds for the next world. Today. Jonathan Paho is an icon Car Republic. Speaker YouTuber, good friend of Jordan Peterson. You remember Jonathan from his profoundly illuminating comments in Jordan's series on Exodus. Jonathan is an awesome guy and he has wonderful insights. In end of the world, you'll receive a thoughtful framework to help make sense of these confusing times and roadmap on how to restore order. Paho draws upon historical stories in the latest episode to explain the cycle of beginnings and endings across societies. The first two episodes out right now exclusively on DailyWire Plus, if you haven't become a member, this would be the perfect time. Again, go to DailyWire dot com slash subscribe. Watch end of the world today.

0 (36m 49s):
Meanwhile, again, the mixed signals being sent by the Biden administration on the Israel Kamas war are very obvious and and ridiculous. So yesterday Joe Biden was talking about the Israel Kamas war and he said, well, Israel has a duty to innocent Palestinians just going after Kamas. Well, you know that that's, that doesn't mean that they get to kill. It is not Israel killing the civilians. Israel is the only party in this conflict that gives any dams at all about the civilian, which makes it so much harder for Israel to win. you know how insulting it is what Biden is saying. So yesterday, Israel lost 10 soldiers. That is a lot of soldiers for Israel, right? Israel is not a large country. Everybody knows everybody. I, I have friends in Israel who are going to Shiva calls, which are the morning calls literally every day for soldiers who are being killed in Israel, who are being killed right now in the Gaza Strip.

0 (37m 34s):
The only reason those soldiers are dying is because Israel is not using its own unbridled power in order to finish off Kamas. Israel is instead putting its own sons and daughters in harm's way. They're putting them in urban street to street fighting and warfare in a, in a really rough and difficult attempt to distinguish Hamas Nicks from actual civilians because one of the things Hamas, Nicks love to do is shield themselves with actual civilians, which is why there's plenty of video available of Hamas literally shooting civilians as they attempt to escape war zones. It's why Hamas is firing rockets from civilian designated sites. That's why they use un depots in order to fire rockets. It's what they do. While Joe Biden is doing this ridiculous routine about how Israel is being indiscriminate and Israel meanwhile is putting its own soldiers in harm's way.

0 (38m 17s):
I'd like to show you a video. This was released by the IDF. This is what combat actually looks like in the Gaza Strip as Israeli soldiers are wounded going house to house. There's an actual piece of footage released by the IDF, it's body cam footage in this particular video for those who can't see. What you will see is an Israeli soldier firing at a kamas terrorist, a kamas terrorist. He kills a kamas terrorist, but the Kamas terrorist throws a grenade at him. The grenade blows up, the Israeli soldier is wounded. He then proceeds well wounded to kill another Hamas terrorist at point blank range. He's going room to room. He can't see anything. This is what actual urban combat looks like. Meanwhile, Joe Biden's like, oh, they're being indiscriminate there. It is so insulting to what the Israeli soldiers are doing right now.

0 (38m 58s):
It would be similarly insulting if we said that it, by the way, it was insulting when Barack Obama back in 2008 you'll recall, actually suggested that America was indiscriminately bombing civilians in Afghanistan. You remember he said this in 2008. It was deeply insulting to American soldiers who were instead going house to house, risking their own lives, not to kill civilians, many of whom were being used as human shields by terrorists. This sort of stuff is, it's, it's it's war talk for people who literally know nothing about war. That is, that, that is what Joe Biden is doing right here. When Joe Biden says Israel is being indiscriminate, he's honestly, he's doing humiliation to the dead Israeli soldiers who are going house to house right now in the Gaza Strip.

0 (39m 38s):
Many of them coming out wounded for life or dead. Anyway, here's Joe Biden doing this ridiculous routine.

6 (39m 44s):
It doesn't lessen the responsibility going after Hamas to innocent Palestinians and, and, and Hamas.

0 (39m 55s):
Yeah, I I don't, there's this entire notion that Israel is not attempting to minimize civilian casualties while its own people are being killed is insane. It's insane. Israel has been doing this for 30 years since Oslo, and it's, it is the roughest job. Counterinsurgency is the roughest job in the military, any military, and Israel's been doing it for 30 years and getting again its own 18, 19, 20-year-old son and daughters killed by going into these areas, specifically in an attempt to avoid civilian casualties. And then you have this old daughtering fool out like, well, really in the screwing up. Meanwhile, Jake Sullivan, the National Security Advisor, he said that he would carry Joe Biden's concerns about the duration of the conflict when he travels to Israel. Later this week, I'll certainly be talking to Prime Minister Netanyahu and the war cabinet and the senior national security leadership about timetables, about how they're thinking about that.

0 (40m 40s):
The subject of how they're seeing the timetable of this war will certainly be on the agenda for all of my meetings. So I would just like to point out right here that the White House position when it comes to Ukraine, has been as long as it takes with as much as it takes without any endpoint knowing that the border is not going to move in. Don Bassen Crimea, they've been doing this in Ukraine since February of 2022. It is now December of 2023. That is fully 22 months, 22 months of war, and the White House is still like, we need 60 more billion dollars for Ukraine. I mean, obviously, I mean, as long as it takes forever, like whatever, as long as it takes. Israel has been at war since October seventh. It's currently December 13th I don Dunno if you can count. That's like a little over two months, a little over two months.

0 (41m 21s):
And Jake Owen's like, when is this thing gonna end already? When's it gonna end already? Meanwhile, the United States has not provided anywhere near the level of military aid the United States has provided to Ukraine, not remotely. So what's the difference? The difference is the left-wing pressure, when it comes to Israel, is significantly larger than the left-wing pressure when it comes to Ukraine. By the way, I just should point out at this point that literally the only reason why the left is supportive of Ukraine as opposed to Russia is because of Russiagate In 2016. It is the only reason when Barack Obama was president, the left was supportive of Russia. When Barack Obama was president, he was making concessions to Russia in Syria, in Crimea, in the Donbas, and the entire left was like, is Putin a bad guy?

0 (42m 2s):
I don't know. Mitt Romney seems to want the foreign policy of the 1980s back then in 2016, there was a widespread perception on the left, it Hillary Clinton could not have legitimately just lost the election. It had to be Russian interference. And at that point, boom, Vladimir Putin goes from hero to villain, and suddenly the Ukraine war is the greatest war that has ever been fought. The only war that matters. Now, some of us have been pretty consistent. Vladimir Putin is a thug. Russia has been an oligarchic quasi terror sponsor state for decades, really, since Putin took over in the early two thousands, like 1999, 2000. Some of us have been fully consistent across the board. What's weird to me is how everybody on both sides flipped. So when Barack Obama was president, the right was like, God, Russia, man, they're terrible.

0 (42m 42s):
And then Trump was president and because the left decided that Russia was terrible, many on the right were like, well, maybe Russia's good Now they know Russia was always the same. Putin has not changed. But what's amazing about this, to get back to the Israel situation, is that the same people who are saying no timetable on Ukraine ever, no timetable, keep it going forever. Those same people are like, it's been two months in Israel, Israel needs to stop. I mean, international pressure and all. Oh man, what are the French gonna think? don don't know. That'd be super careful about the Polish. We're like, oh my gosh, we're, we're really, really concerned about what the Netherlands is gonna think about all of this. Like, it, it's, it's just, it's just ridiculous. Meanwhile, the media doing the work of Hamas, it, it is, it is truly incredible how the media's dedication to the fundamental principle, which is that if you are an unsuccessful nation, if you are, if you're a nation that is rife with terror, if you're a nation that is rife with anti-Americanism, somehow there must be something good about you.

0 (43m 33s):
It's truly amazing. And somehow, if you are a more powerful nation that has built up its military and has guaranteed rights for its own citizens, that somehow you are the victimizer. I mean, here's a CNN anchor, Boris Sanchez questioning Israeli spokesman, mark Regev about the number of dead in Gaza. Now, again, no one has ever done this in a war before. Like I, this was not done during the ISIS war. Nobody's like, oh my God, how many people are getting killed in the ISIS war? It's so many people are dying. Nobody. This wasn't even talked about really during the Afghan or the Iraq War. But suddenly when Israel has to take an action in order to maintain its own security for the future after the worst terror attack in its history, then all of a sudden it's like, oh my God, this is too many people getting killed. Doesn't matter, by the way, how many of them are terrorists according to CNN?

0 (44m 16s):
Here we go.

10 (44m 18s):
On the question of Biden suggesting that Israel is losing global support, does that influence the thinking of the Israeli government in any way? I I, I think it's become clear given what the UN Security Council tried to push forward this weekend, that the US blocked, that the world is not okay with the 18,000 plus people that have been reported killed, many of them women and children in Gaza. D does this in any way alter what Israel is trying to accomplish, or at least the way that it approaches its war with Hamas?

11 (44m 54s):
Well, first of all, the UN is a strange place, and there's an automatic, as you know, Boris, there's an automatic anti-Israel majority there at the United Nations, and we thank the United States. We're very appreciative of the veto that we had, the Amer America's diplomatic protection. It really is appreciated here in Israel, but as, as we move forward in this, it's crucial that we win this war. It's crucial that we defeat Kamas in doing so. In parallel, we have to do everything we can to safeguard GA and civilians, and we have to do everything we can to make sure they get the aid that they need.

0 (45m 33s):
By the way, worth noting right here that again, zero people would be dying if Hamas just surrendered. Hamas will not surrender, and so people will continue to die. It really is that simple. Meanwhile, while the West continues to vacillate and the West continues to pretend that terrorists are not terrorists and that evil people are not evil, the Houthis continue to ratchet up all of the problems with shipping throughout the Middle East. According to the Wall Street, Journal, Yemen's, Houthis forces have attacked several commercial ships crossing through the Bob Alman Dub Strait in recent days, creating a new front in the battle between Israel and Hamas, complicating efforts by the United States and in allies to secure that critical shipping lane. Hhy Rebels claimed responsibility on Tuesday for a strike on the Norwegian Tanka, a day earlier off Yemen's coast, as the Iranian ally escalates attacks to disrupt the flow of cargoes in response to fighting in Gaza.

0 (46m 16s):
Now, can I just point out here that Western military power compared to Hhy pirates or a bunch of ill armed dots, like why is this even an issue? We should just obliterate them if they're in those waters, put some ships in the water. If the Houthis put up a drone, shoot it down, and then kill the people who are firing the drone. If they put a little boat in the water with a bunch of terrorists on it blow up the boat. What, what? Why are we pretending that this is difficult when it is clearly not particularly difficult? It is an amazing, amazing thing. Why? And the answer is because you wouldn't wanna convey to the Iranians that we are militant. Meanwhile, Iran is at war with the United States. It doesn't mean that we have to go in and do regime change. It doesn't mean that we need to go bomb Tehran.

0 (46m 58s):
It doesn't mean that we have allies inside the regime that would be capable of handling the place if we were to bomb teron. What it does mean is its proxy groups are pinpricks compared to the power of Western military might, and we're letting them hold up shipping, and that will cost people money. By the way, we can pretend that none of this has any real world effect, but the reality is that, that Bob Mond straight the place that the who these are running around hijacking ships and, and firing things at them. That is the route by which 10% of literally all global trade passes, the United, States, other Western powers, they have to be blowing the Houthis outta the water. When they do that, instead, they're all, all futsing around, oh, is it really a problem? What should we do? Oh, this is so troublesome. You know what's more troublesome is when Iran starts fomenting more and more conflict around the region, which by the way, is why the West should also be standing against Hezbollah.

0 (47m 41s):
Being in the south of Lebanon right now, Israel is issuing all sorts of warnings to Hezbollah move, move north, move about 30 miles north and get the hell off that border. Because right now you've got our entire country in rocket range, and we are not going to leave it that way. The West should similarly make it clear to the Lebanese government that Hezbollah needs to move off that border. Meanwhile, Hamas leaders are apparently fleeing Qatar. The Qatari government apparently told them that if they stay, that Israel might kill them. So that is at least a positive note. Hopefully Israel will kill them because they're some of the world's most evil human beings. Apparently, they left for an unknown at destination. They turned off their phones. They're not accepting calls. Now, apparently, a senior member of Kamas also left his usual residence in Beirut for Turkey.

0 (48m 24s):
So Kamas is so much on the run from Assad that they're now leaving countries that they feel are vulnerable in favor of presumably Iran and Turkey. Speaking of which, a Turkish lawmaker yesterday he was preaching against Israel and he started screaming about how Israel will not be able to escape the wrath of God, and then things went wrong for him. He's saying the truth will not be silent if only you could be saved from the torment of history. You cannot be saved from the wrath. Allah, Israel, salut to you all, Heart attack down.

0 (49m 6s):
So a, he's in serious condition. Just to point out that the Turkish government is one of the leading terrorist Sponsors in the Middle East while being a NATO member. you know, I'm talking about the, the, the useless system of nata of nato. Stop talking about Ukraine, start talking about Turkey, which is indeed a disaster area of a country. Meanwhile, Joe Biden is continuing to have all sorts of trouble on the economy. The new inflation report is out, and it is not particularly good. According to Breitbart, the inflation report released Tuesday as unlikely to do much to support the idea that Biden omics has been a boon for the American economy. The consumer price index climbed at 0.1% on a monthly basis and acceleration from being flat. In October, the annual increase is at 3.1%. Now remember, we are supposed to be seeking a 2% rate of increase.

0 (49m 48s):
So three looks good when compared to, you know what, it was 10, but it still looks really bad when compared to two. It's fully 50% off the number that you are looking for. Biden's supporters amending the establishment. Financial media are saying that this is well below 9%. But let's just point out that inflation fell to 3.1% annualized in June and then spent the next four months rising again, and now is back at 3.1% and it is all baked into the cake. It is not as though when inflation, the rate of inflation goes to 3%, that means that the prices are going back down. They're not, they're going up, they're just going up slower. This is why Joe Biden remains an unpopular president, democratic senator. She brown. I, I love that he continues to promote the idea that inflation is a result of corporate, of corporate evil or something as opposed to, you know, shooting money into the American economy.

0 (50m 38s):
Like here, a strip club here is Sheard Brown doing his routine.

13 (50m 42s):
John stands up to the meat packing interest. He knows what that does to food prices and he knows what it does to farmers' wages. And the same that I stand up to Wall Street and stand up to drug companies and voters, voters don't carry your party if you're standing up for an interest group, that's, that's screwing over people. And you know, when, when people go to the grocery store, they're, frankly, they're paying, they're, they're grocery prices go up because they're paying for executive bonuses and, and stock buybacks. And that's pretty clear. And voters, voters understand that when you talk about it that way.

0 (51m 14s):
Well, I mean, actually voters are not going to blame inflation on corporate buybacks. That is, that is a dog that is not going to hunt by any stretch of the imagination. As Axios notes overall, CPI rose 0.1%, November as dropping gasoline prices drag the overall index down, but while the headline drifts steadily lower, the core measure is stuck beneath the surface. By some measures, it's pushing higher. The index rose at a 3.4% annualized pace over the past three months, as recently as August, it was 2.4% by that measure. So again, the, the idea that that the Fed is about ready to lower the interest rates again, that obviously is untrue and Democrats are looking for somebody to blame for their own failures. Here's Janet Yellen, who has been a terrible treasury secretary blaming Covid for the continuing inflation and the stagnating economy.

14 (51m 59s):
Why do you think there is this disconnect? And are you concerned about the fact that the administration's message around omics isn't landing?

15 (52m 7s):
So I think we've, we've been through a lot. Everybody's, the pandemic caused an enormous amount of disruption in people's lives, and we're still in the aftermath of what's been a serious shock. And we've had serious global shocks. And although prices are rising at a much slower pace than they were, inflation is substantially off its highs. The level of prices of some things that people buy and are important to them are higher.

0 (52m 47s):
Everything is going amazing according to Janet Yellen. I mean, except for the votes, which are not going amazing for Joe Biden. He's in serious electoral trouble already, folks, in just one second, we'll be getting to the latest in the 2024 race where the governor of New Hampshire has now endorsed somebody. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months, free and all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.