GNC (0s):
Pound for pound, scoop for scoop. Nobody does pre-workout like GNC, so forget that junk. You can get anywhere else and get to GNC for the best pre-workouts around like Ghost beyond raw and cage, because if we don't have it, you don't want it. GNC

ExpressVPN (16s):
This show is sponsored by ExpressVPN. It's time to stand up against big tech protector J at ExpressVPN dot com

1 (21s):
slash BEN. There are two major problems with the notion of diversity, equity, and inclusion or DEI. The first is the inherent discrimination in the concept, the belief that all aspects of success are due to exploitation and discrimination. This means that when applied to groups, statistically underperforming groups are to be considered victimized, whether or not they're victims and to be treated with special privileges. Those who are members of statistically overachieving groups, whether or not they're victimized, are to be treated as villains. The only possible exception to this hierarchy is white men who are always to be treated as villains, whether their group is underperforming or overperforming in any given situation. This philosophy is how you Get a holiday party for electeds of color thrown by Asian Boston Mayor Michelle Wu.

1 (1m 3s):
Apparently this electeds of color party has been a thing for a decade in Boston. Here was Wu defending it.

2 (1m 10s):
Members of the Boston City Council received an email invitation to what's called a gathering of electeds of color. Not all members of the council fit that description.

3 (1m 21s):
I think we've, we've had individual conversations with everyone so people understand that it was truly just a, an honest mistake that went out in in typing the email field. And I look forward to celebrating with everyone at the holiday parties that we will have besides this one as well. So it is my intention that we can, again, be a city that lives our values and creates space for all kinds of communities to come together.

1 (1m 48s):
Living your values requires segregated parties. This is obviously discriminatory and wrong. If there are a white electeds only party, of course that would be violative of federal discrimination law. But DEI insists that you cannot be wrong so long as you're a member of the victimhood hierarchy. So that's the first problem with DEI. It's racist. Then there's the second problem, not disconnected with the first mediocrity. If success is to be treated as sinful and failure as virtuous because victimhood is virtue, then mediocrity is the happy middle where you can avoid being completely terrible at things, but also escape censure for being actually good at them. So it is in academia where racially diverse mediocrity is preferable to non race-based meritocratic achievement. See for example, Harvard where President Claudine gay, despite apparently being both a serial plagiarist and a soft on antisemitism leader, is still in her job or see Chicago or Mayor Brandon Johnson.

1 (2m 37s):
The even worse successor to Lori Lightfoot announced his plans this week to kill Chicago's high achieving selective enrollment schools since they weren't racially diverse enough. Chicago Public Schools, CEO, Pedro Martinez has put forth a resolution seeking quote, a transition away from privatization and admissions enrollment policies and approaches that further stratification and inequity in CPS and drive student enrollment away from neighborhood schools better that high achieving students be trapped in the crappy local school than they'd be able to go to a better school mediocrity for everyone. And so it is at the White House too, where equity prevails above all. Now, when the Biden White House promised that equity would be at the heart of all they do, they meant it, which presumably is why Dr.

1 (3m 18s):
Joe Biden the greatest of all Mediocrities a doc, but she's a doctor. Guys, the most doctor, doctor, whoever doctored, she invited the Dorrance Dan's company to perform a version of the Nutcracker Ballet at the White House. Now, there's nothing wrong with the concept here. The Nutcracker written by Tchaikovsky is a famous Christmas time at piece of culture and tap dance is a historically black American art form with a long and storied Hollywood history. Many if not most of the greatest tap artists in history have been black Americans from the Nicholas Brothers to Bill Bojangles Robinson to Gregory Hines, In fact, here's some tape of what truly amazing tap looks like. This is the Nicholas Brothers from Stormy Weather in 1943.

1 (4m 23s):
I mean, this is the good stuff right here, right? Okay. Now of course, like most of the amazing stuff in America, tap has been adopted by people of all cultures. That's how you end up with Gene Kelly and Fred Astaire, two of the great American artists of all time. So there was plenty of history and quality for the Biden White House to choose from in picking their Christmas tap routine. Well, what the White House presented wasn't good Tap. It wasn't terrible. It was just kind of weird and meh. Here's the tape for those who can't see, it's kind of weirdly attired lady dancing down the halls of the Hunger Games White House here, and then a weird guy with a lot of weird people dressed in weird costumes and everybody's kind of just walking down the halls and nothing's happening and creepy faces.

1 (5m 19s):
At no point is any serious dancing. You can't see their feet like, what are don? Don't know why this is supposed to be good, but it is diverse. So there's that. I mean, it's obviously not good. Like these people I'm sure are great dancers. So why can't we actually see them dance like that'd be good. Okay, so why was Doran's dance picked to do this much mock routine? I'm not the only one who thought it was met. Presumably it had something to do with the politics of the group. Michelle Doran's, founder of the group, has dedicated the group to quote unquote anti-racism. Here's what she wrote on her website quote. It is our job to tell the history of tap dance as a celebration of black culture and also the never ending struggle against systematic racism and white supremacy in this country.

1 (6m 5s):
The origin story of appropriation in American culture in 2020 says, Michelle dos. I'm part of the way this story plays out. I'm a white tap dancer with black cultural ancestors in a society that privileges white people in whiteness. I am easy for white audiences wanting to access and experience elements of black culture to swallow as though Americans are supremely opposed to Black tap dancers, which no Doza says. The Tap dance is quote, both a tradition born of subversion revolution and protest, and a powerful vehicle for social and political change and ads that is a beneficiary of white privilege. I invite you to join me in lifelong anti-racism work. Understanding how deeply embedded white supremacy, racism and colonialism is in our culture is paramount to understanding our role as white people in perpetuating it and embracing our job to dismantle it.

1 (6m 56s):
Or you know, you could just dance and do like a good dance routine because here's the reality of a free country. Quality improves everyone and everything. All the black tap artists I mentioned before did more for racial comedy and black Americans than Michelle Dorrance ever will because they demonstrated to anyone who would even idiotically think that race ought to define somebody that incredible artistry spans, race transcends it. But here's the thing, when DEI is your goal, mediocrity ought too often is the result. In just one second, we'll get to a fascinating cultural story about the beheading of a Satanic statue. We'll get to that.

Helix (7m 31s):
It's the Christmas season first. I've been talking about my Helix sleep mattress for years. you know all about this. I've had my helix for years and years and years at this point. It's great. It was made just for me. I took that helix sleep quiz and I got the mattress that was perfect for my body type and sleep preferences, and you can do the same. I got the firm but breathable mattress, which is what I need. What kinda mattress will be great for you? You can find out. Helix Elite is their newest, most high-end collection. It harnesses years of extensive master expertise to offer a truly elevated sleep experience. The Helix Elite Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for specific sleep positions and firmness preferences. Go to helix sleep dot com slash BEN and check out the new collection today. If you're nervous about buying a mattress online, you don't have to be. Helix has a sleep quiz that matches your body type and sleep preferences to the perfect mattress because why would you buy a mattress made for someone else? I took that helix quiz. I was matched with a firm but breathable mattress. As I say, go to helix sleep dot com slash BEN. Take that two minute sleep. Quiz yourself. Your mattress will come at directly to your door, shipped for free. Plus Helix has a 10 year warranty. You can try it out for 100 nights risk free. They'll even pick it up for you if you don't love it, but of course you will. Helix is offering 20% off all mattress orders and two free pillow. For my listeners, it's a great deal. Go to helix sleep dot com slash BEN. It's their best offer, yet it's not gonna last long with Helix.

1 (8m 37s):
Better sleep starts right now. Okay, meanwhile over in Iowa. Fascinating story. Apparently there was a Satanic Temple display inside the Iowa State Capitol and it was destroyed by a person named Michael Cassidy. 35. He was then charged. He turned himself in with fourth degree criminal mischief. In a text message to Fox News, digital Cassidy confirmed he tore down the Satanic display, which was erected last week by the Satanic Temple of Iowa to represent the group's right to religious freedom. Cassidy said it was extremely anti-Christian Cassidy had previously run an unsuccessful campaign for Congress in 2022. He didn't elaborate on why he toward the statue down, but he posted a Bible verse on Thursday night to X after being charged, be sober, be vigilant because your adversary, the devil as a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour in a Facebook post.

1 (9m 25s):
The Satanic temple of Iowa wrote that the display was quote unquote beyond repair. The group wrote, we asked that for safety. Visitors traveled together and used the seven tenets as a Reminder for empathy and the knowledge that justice is being pursued the correct way through legal means. Happy holidays. Hail Satan, the Iowa Republican Governor Kim Reynolds condemned the display's presence, but she said it should be countered with more speech than like many Iowans. I find the Satanic temple's display in the capsule capital absolutely objectionable in a free society. The best response to objectionable speech is more speech. I encourage all those of faith to join me today in praying over the Capitol in recognizing the nativity scene that'll be on display. The true reason for the season. The co-founder of the Satanic Temple, a person named Ian Graves, had previously told local media that the display would be up for two weeks.

1 (10m 6s):
Quote, we're gonna really relish the opportunity to be represented in a public forum. We don't have a church on every street corner. My feeling is if people don't like our display in public forum, they don't have to engage with them. They don't have to view them. Okay, so let's talk about this. First of all, for the guy who who knocked the head off the statue, this actually is the way you do public protest, by the way, is if you are actually gonna do this, you then accept the consequences for that thing, right? He knocked the head off the statue and then he turned himself into the police. Unlike all these morons you see who are blocking the freeway, who have been very, very upset that they're getting arrested. Like when it comes to civil disobedience, which is what this is, when you participate in civil disobedience, you then turn yourself in, right? That that is the way that it works. Okay? So there's that. Then there's the question of whether he did anything quote unquote morally wrong in knocking down the statue.

1 (10m 49s):
Now, this is only mildly questionable. The answer is, the answer is no. He didn't do anything morally wrong in knocking down the statue of his Satanic group. I'm sorry he didn't. On a moral level, you have no moral right to promote a non-religion that is specifically directed at hatred of Christians. That's exactly what this is. Now, you may have a legal right to do that, but that's not the same thing as a moral right to do it. These are two different types of right. We have all sorts of legal rights to do things that are immoral in American society. So we have to separate those two things off because very often when we're talking about rights, we tend to conflate them. We tend to think something is legal, therefore it's moral or it's moral, therefore it's legal. Now that's not the same thing. It is legal to use the n-word for example.

1 (11m 30s):
It is immoral to do so. You should not. Similarly, it is not immoral to knock down a Satanic statue. It may be illegal to do so because the law is supposed to protect private property. Okay? But that raises the question as to why the law does that. So you see Kim Reynolds there say that this is protected speech. They're putting up a Satanic display at the state. Capitol sponsored by the state presumably is some form of freedom of speech and that that really does require us to ask a specific question, a question that we've not asked in a long time in this country, which is what is a legitimate religion? Not all religions are actually religions. Satanism is a perfect example of a non-religion. It is an ideology masquerading as a religion, and if you view the Satanic website, they openly say things like, we don't worship action.

1 (12m 16s):
We don't even believe there is a thing called Satan. It's not like we're actually worshiping a God-like being known as we don't even believe in God. So what it really is is just a political agenda pretending that it's a religious agenda. So to pretend that this is religious speech is obviously not true. In fact, if you go back to the founding, there's no way that the founding fathers under the rubric of freedom of religion would've included anyone who calls themselves a religion. In fact, the IRS does this all the time. There are certain cult-like groups that try to declare themselves a religion. The IRS will be like, no, you're not a religion. Don't believe you. Which means you don't have freedom of religion rights in the same way that say in nativity scene at a Capitol building wood or Hanukkah menorah at a Capitol building wood.

1 (12m 58s):
So again, legally speaking, this kind of bizarre libertarian notion that has been picked up on by a lot of Republicans, that it's just an aspect of freedom of religion. To put it by Satanic display at a state Capitol, there's really not a lot of legal backing to support that idea. There's a good piece by a lawyer named Frank DeVito over at the American Conservative a few months back in which you talk specifically about this. He's currently an attorney serving as counsel at the Napa Legal Institute, and he writes about this. He says, there was an upper last week when a school district in my neck of the woods approved an afterschool Satan club. After proper chaos ensued, the school district did the right thing and reconsidered deciding they should not approve a club for children sponsored by the Satanic temple. After all, American conservatives have been so shaped by libertarian arguments for absolute personal freedom.

1 (13m 40s):
The point has come where they wonder whether satanism is part of the tradition protected by the US Constitution. Something must be done to take back this obvious ground. and he points out that there's very little case law on the specific issue of whether satanism is a protected religion. What we do have is a little bit jumbled, but the point is that since the Constitution does not define religion, the court then turns to case law for guidance. But the early Supreme Court defined religion in traditionally theistic terms, In other words, you know, believing in God, not an atheistic anti-Christian non-religion pretending to be a religion for purposes of putting up a Satanic display next to a nativity scene, which is the purpose of what the Satanic temple is doing here. That's exactly the purpose of what the Satanic Temple is doing here.

1 (14m 20s):
The founders never would've considered this an aspect of freedom of religion, not remotely In fact. It was only in 2019 that the IRS even declared that the Satanic temple was a tax exempt church that was under Donald Trump, by the way, a point that Ron DeSantis was making. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Trust & Will (14m 36s):
First, from maintaining control of your assets to easing the burden on your loved ones and estate plan can ensure your family stays prepared and protected. If you're looking for a way to set up your estate to offer financial benefits and more, you need to check out Trust and Will Traditional estate planning. It can cost thousands of bucks, many one size fits all solutions might not capture all the important details of the life you've built. With Trust and Will, you can protect your legacy from the comfort of your home starting at just $159. They have simplified the process of creating and managing your will or trust online from finding out what's right for your family to finalizing documents with the notary. My wife and I, we've rewritten our wills several times, primarily to make sure that our kids are taken care of should God forbid something happen to us. You need to do the same thing and you can do it easily and quickly. With Trust and Will, secure your assets. Protect your loved ones with Trust and Will. Get 10% off plus free shipping of your estate plan documents by visiting Trust and Will dot com slash SHAPIRO. That's 10% off free shipping at Trust and Will dot com slash

1 (15m 28s):
Shapiro. Go check them out right now. It's a super important thing to do. Make sure that you have your trust and your will all set up. Go check them out right now. 10% off free shipping at Trust and Will dot com slash Shapiro to get started. Well, again, as Frank DeVito points out here, it's not merely that the founders would never have considered a religion of satanism to be protected by the First Amendment, freedom of religion. It's not just that. It turns out that as pointed out in an article at Harvard Law Review a few years back, the black letter rule in American law was clear constitutional liberty entailed a right to articulate views on religion, but not even a right to commit blasphemy. The offensive maliciously reviling God, which encompassed profane ridicule of Christ, those were com laws like this were compatible with the free exercise of religion.

1 (16m 9s):
They were completely upheld. As this lawyer points out throughout the nation's history, even into the 20th century, the federal courts have consistently upheld state anti blasphemy laws as constitutional. There is no binding precedent stating that anti blasphemy laws even violate the first amendment. And this is where what you claim is a religion actually matters. Again, if you look at the Church of Satan website or the Wikipedia page, it's not just that they revile and ridicule Christ, they don't even bel it's, it's not a religion, it's not, there's nothing there that says religion. It is an antichrist political program that is masquerading as a religion. Again, we've talked about it on the show before. When you look at the Satanic Temple website, they don't actually believe in Satan. I mean because that would be to to believe in God, in order to believe in, in Satan, presumably you have to believe in a supernatural.

1 (16m 54s):
They don't actually believe in any of that. They say with unfortunate regularity. The Satanic temple is confused with an earlier organization, the Church of Satan. The Church of Satan expresses vehement opposition to the campaigns and activities of the Satanic temple. But what they actually say is that they, they don't actually believe again in Satan itself. So here's what the Satanic temple itself says in its pamphlet. Quote, the Satanic temple practices non-theistic satanism. We believe that religion can and should be divorced from superstition. As such, we do not believe in either God or the devil. As supernatural forces we bow to know Gods or Gods or and celebrate our outsider status. To embrace the name Satan is to embrace rational inquiry removed from supernaturalism and archaic tradition-based superstitions.

1 (17m 38s):
The Satanist should actively work to home critical thinking and exercise reasonable inquiry in all things. Our beliefs must be malleable to the best current scientific understandings of the material world. Never the reverse. So what exactly is Satan to the Satanic temple quote? Satan is symbolic of the eternal rebel in opposition to arbitrary authority forever defending personal sovereignty even in the face of insurmountable odds. Satan is an icon for the unbounded will of the relentless inquirer, the heretic who questions sacred laws and rejects all tyrannical impositions. This metaphorical construct provides us with the framework by which we live. He's a symbol of defiance. Satanism does not suggest a supernatural solution to the trials of existence. Rather, it serves as an affirmation of that which is demonstrably true. Ours is the historical Satan of western literary traditions expressed in texts like John Milton's Paradise lost.

1 (18m 21s):
First of all, it's complete misread of paradise lost. That's a super giant misread of paradise lost. John Milton does not like Satan. You have to be a moron to believe this, but it doesn't matter. The bottom line is this is obviously not a church, it's not a religion. It's just a bunch of secularists who are like, oh, what if we just like slap a symbol on top of this thing and then we put it up next to the nativity scene so we can laugh at Jesus. That's what this is all about. And again, it wasn't until 2019 when the Satanic temple was actually designated a church by the IRS. The group is now listed in an IRS database for tax exempt organizations. So what exactly was this Satanic statue beheading doing? Well, I mean obviously this wasn't like a historic piece of art. This wasn't like the Taliban blowing up some giant Buddhist statue from a millennium ago, like a, a statue they put together and then they put it in like the Iowa state Capitol in order to mock people.

1 (19m 10s):
So the guy knocked it down and now presumably he's going to be put on trial and I assume that he will appeal on the basis of this. I assume he is going to appeal on the basis of this isn't actually a religion. So you can say that I owe them damages for property damage or something and I'm willing to pay it and I can raise the money to pay for it. But to pretend that this is actually a religious freedom display is to demean what it means to be religious, which is precisely the purpose of this thing. It's to demean what it, like they say, we want it up next to the nativ scene. Why? Why do they want it up next to the nativity scene? So for example, Jews, we, we do the hanukia, right? We have the Menorah, the Hanukah menorah. We've been displaying that since before Christianity was even around on planet Earth and we would be displaying that whether or not Christians were displaying a nativity scene.

1 (19m 52s):
It's not like we're like, oh my gosh, we need a hanukia right up next to that. I have never cared whether my hanukia is even in the remote proximity of a nativity scene, but the entire point of the Satanic temple is to put their thing right next to the nativity scene in order to mock Christianity. That's what it's all about in the first place. So hopefully this thing gets adjudicated. I would love to see the Supreme Court actually take on a pretty thorny and interesting question as to whether it counts as a religion. If you just creed an anti-Christian thing and then call it a religion, what exactly is satanism? Again, the entire thing is oriented against Christianity. That's what it's oriented against. And they make this very clear. So cosmopolitan, just like a month ago, put forth a an Instagram post that is totally disgusting. I mean vile.

1 (20m 32s):
How does a Satanic abortion ceremony even workday? Ask. And it's a picture of a woman staring into a shard of glass that is a mirror. And here's what Cosmopolitan says is what's it like to have a Satanic abortion for Jessica, a 37-year-old mother of three who received abortion medication via Samuel Alitos mom Satanic clinic. Again, the whole purpose of satanism is to simply insult religious people. And apparently Supreme Court justices, the experience was just very supportive. While she's not a Satanist, Jessica decided to incorporate a few ceremonial ceremonial elements into her solo abortion experience. Why not? She thought the overall messaging just clicked with her. Read more about it at the link in the bio. So here's what it says, quote, patients of all faiths are welcome at Samuel Alto's, mom's Satanic abortion clinic in New Mexico, along with medical counsel, TST offers free ceremonial support to everyone.

1 (21m 18s):
Abortion ceremonies are totally optional and customizable. Here's a simple one. TST recommends. TST is the Satanic temple, which is the same group that put up this Satanic statue at the Iowa state Capitol. So this entire post, every single one of these posts from Instagram has an inverted cross at the top. It's a cross that's upside down and the entire purpose here is to mock Christianity the entire purpose. That's not a religion, that's just mockery of Christianity. Now you can say it's free speech. That is not freedom of religion. That is not the same thing. Those are two different things. Freedom of practice of religion would require that the state Capitol include different religions in the state Capitol according to current Supreme Court law. But this is not a religion, it is just mockery.

1 (21m 59s):
So it inverted cross. It says first find a quiet space. Bring a mirror if you can just before taking the medication gaze at your reflection and focus on your personhood. Hone in on your intent, your responsibility to you first of all should hone in on things. But second of all, your responsibility, you, you are God, your goddess in this scenario. According to the Satanic church, right Ga focus, focus on your not the personhood of the baby growing inside you who you're killing. Focus on your own personhood 'cause you're the only person who matters. Next slide. Inverted cross. Take a few deep relaxing breaths. When you're ready, read the following tenet aloud. One's body is inviable, subject to one's own will alone take the medication and immediately afterward, I quote, beliefs should conform to one's best scientific understanding of the world.

1 (22m 41s):
One should take care never to distort scientific facts to fit one's beliefs. Next slide. Upside down, cross again later. Once the procedure is complete, the euphemism procedure is complete. Return to your reflection. Oh my God. The the, the self obsession here is totally wild, but I guess this is what the religion of satanism is all about. Worship itself, that makes sense. Focus again on your personhood, your power in making this decision. Complete the ritual by reciting a personal information. And of course, this is a mockery of Catholic catechism by my body, my blood, by my will. It is done. That is pretty. I mean, could it, could it possibly be more mocking of Christianity?

1 (23m 26s):
I mean that, that's obviously what it is. They, they're just mocking the Eucharist, right? Even I, but a humble, ignorant Jew understand that it's mockery of the Eucharist. But that, that, that's precisely what it is. This is not a religion, it's just mockery quote mirrors or mantras or not TSTs point is that your abortion should focus on your autonomy in making this decision. Patients can include as many loved ones as as they'd like, or like candles or even dress up, whatever makes them feel empowered. This is in Cosmopolitan Magazine. Yeah. Now is this a church? Is this even remotely resembling a church? Of course not. It has nothing to do with church. Zero. Zip, zilch. Not a, all it is is a bunch of se secular left wing anti-Christian propaganda crammed into a fake phony religion.

1 (24m 7s):
And then you pretend it's a religion so you can stick your garbage statue up next to a nativity scene. It's obvious that Christianity is a religion and satanism is not and the founding fathers would've felt the same way. And the fact that so many people have gone so libertarian that they've given up their brain space for this stuff is ridiculous. Not all things that claim to be religions are In fact religions. Not all behaviors are forms of speech. There's a strong case to be made that burning a flag is not a form of speech. If you want to say things, you can say them. That's called speech burning. Things is conduct, but again, failures to make any of these distinctions, all of that has, has led to this kinda mushy libertarianism in which we're all supposed to pretend that immorality is somehow morality.

1 (24m 50s):
It's led to the conflation also between a legal right, as I said at the very beginning and a moral right. Those are not the same thing. Not the same thing whatsoever. Okay, in just one second, we'll get to the latest on Israel where it turns out that terrorists, they really like killing people who are not actually just in Israel.

Stamps.com (25m 5s):
First, the holidays are hard enough. Make things easier than ever with stamps.com. stamps.com has been helping businesses like yours save time and money during the holiday rush for 25 years with easy access to USPS and UPS services and premium rates for all your postage needs. stamps.com lets you print your own postage and shipping labels directly from your home or office space. It's incredibly convenient. Your shipping labels are ready to go in minutes so you can get back to running your business sooner. We don't waste our time here at The Daily Wire. We don't have the time or the money to do that sort of stuff. So we've used stamps.com instead. Since 2017, our office management staff loves stamps.com because they don't have to spend hours at the post office anymore. stamps.com offers rates you can't find anywhere else, like up to 84% off USPS and UPS plus, they'll automatically tell you your cheapest and fastest shipping options. For 25 years, stamps.com has been indispensable to over a million businesses. You can print postage wherever you do business, no lines, no traffic, no waiting. Set your business up for success. Get started with stamps.com today. Sign up with promo code Shapiro for a special offer that includes a four week trial plus free postage and free digital scale. No long-term commitments, no contracts. Just go to stamps.com, click that microphone at the top of the homepage and enter promo code Shapiro.

1 (26m 9s):
Okay, so meanwhile, Germany has apparently uncovered an alleged Hamas terror plot in Europe. So remember that time the Hamas said that they wanna kill people like all over the world? Yeah. It turns out that that's true. It turns out that international terror organizations, they're really bad and they like killing people all over the world and they like to do so. Number one, because their ideology demands that they spread the caliphate. I mean, Hamas has been very clear about this. They don't just wish to kill Jews, for example, inside Israel, they wish to kill Jews outside of Israel as well. Their end goal would be a, an Islamic caliphate no different than than what ISIS would want. Hamas does not just have territorial claims. Their latest attempt to rewrite their charter for public facing distribution is obviously a backfill. They did this in about 2017 and now by the way, they're attempting hilariously enough to push themselves into the Palestine Liberation Organization so as to quote unquote moderate themselves by pretending that they're willing to accept the existence of the state of Israel, which of course they're not.

1 (27m 2s):
That is the reason why they slaughtered people in the Gaza envelope, which has been part of the state of Israel since inception. In any case, they, yesterday were uncovered Hamas terror apparatus was discovered in Europe. German authorities on Thursday detained four alleged members of Hamas suspected of planning to attack Jewish institutions in the region. The first suggestion the Gaza conflict might be spilling over beyond the Middle East. What was that? The first indication really, because I noticed the Gaza conflict spilling over beyond the Middle East when hundreds of thousands of supporters of Kamas were marching in the streets of London. That's, that's when I noticed at first, actually, to be fair, Germany's federal prosecutors had one of the men acting under orders from Kamas. Leaders in Lebanon had in the spring begun searching for a cache of weapons. The organization had clandestinely assembled in the past.

1 (27m 44s):
The weapons were to be brought to Berlin until they could be used in a possible attack against Jewish institutions. In Europe. Security officials say the group has long been active in Europe, but so far they say it's been, you know, mostly logistical base and source of financing rather than a possible terror target. In October, a man identified as a Lebanese born El Abdel Hamid and two accomplices, an Egyptian national and a Dutch national, began traveling from Berlin across the region to gather weapons assisted by a third man identified as a Lebanese born terrorist according to the German prosecutor, the former longstanding Hamas members who had already participated in foreign operations for the group. So I have a question. Why weren't they in jail already? They just get to wander around Europe raising money for terror attacks as so long as they're at Israel in in and Jews in Israel.

1 (28m 28s):
Pretty amazing stuff. Meanwhile, apparently at least seven terror suspects have actually been arrested in Europe. So you've got the four that were arrested by Germany, but Danish agencies also exposed Hamas infrastructure on European soil. At least three people were arrested in Denmark and one in the Netherlands on suspicion of plotting to carry out an act of terror. And that, of course, would not be a surprise. The goal of these terror groups is to push the West to abandon its interests in the Middle East with terror attacks. This has been true since the Iraq war. It's been true before that it's been true really since the 1960s and 1970s. And terrorists in the region use whatever levers of power they have in order to try to intimidate the West into going hands off in this particular region of the world, despite the fact that the West has tremendously heavy economic interest in this particular region of the world, and also some moral interest in, you know, defending the only diverse democracy in the entire region.

1 (29m 18s):
Meanwhile, even as Hamas is, is pushing terror attacks abroad, the White House continues to send bizarre signals to the Israelis. Let's be clear about this. The Israelis are not going to stop until Hamas is completely fenestrated in the Gaza Strip. It will end with Israel having to station 30, 40,000 troops in the Gaza Strip in perpetuity in order to police it. That is what's going to happen. And the reason that's going to happen is because Kamas is not just a tarot group. They have Networks of terror sympathizes throughout the Gaza strip. Kamas currently enjoys a 57 57 50 2% approval approval rating in Gaza, which has been completely wrecked because of Kamas and In fact. The approval rating for Kamas in the West Bank, which is the place that's supposed to be governed by the Palestinian Authority, right?

1 (30m 1s):
The wanted PA that the Biden White House wants to see in charge of the Gaza Strip. No one likes the PA in the West Bank. In fact Palestinians in the West Bank are highly supportive of Hamas to the tune of 80 plus percent by every available poll. So this notion that Israel is somehow going to acquiesce to a quote unquote two state solution with the very people who perpetrated October 7th and their sympathizers, that's insane. And what's even more insane is the idea that Israel is going to hurry up in order to slow down. So Israel is currently hurrying up operations in an attempt to comply with White House Dick Tots, which means more Israeli soldiers are getting killed, the number of Israeli soldiers were getting killed. Dayon Day is rising specifically because the White House is telling the Israelis to hurry up.

1 (30m 41s):
That's why Israel's having to rush its operations as opposed to going slower. And meanwhile, the stuff they could be doing to minimize their own deaths they have not been doing, because again, they don't want the bad headlines coming out of the Gaza Strip. So instead they're sending their own men and women into harm's way going house by house and tunnel by tunnel, as opposed to using their complete air superiority in areas that already should have been clear of civilians two months ago. Nonetheless, Jake Sullivan apparently told Israel that their war needs to transition to the next lower intensity phase in a matter of weeks, not months. While I'm sure if he has a plan, Israel's willing to hear it. If he's got a magic laser up in the sky, maybe he could lend it to the Jews. Like this kind of stupidity about war where he got Jake Sullivan dictating military timetables in the middle of an operation is totally crazy.

1 (31m 27s):
It's so stupid. And by the way, it's dumb when American politicians do it to our own military. We used to do it in Iraq and Afghanistan regularly. We'd have Barack Obama sitting at the top of the American government doing things like, sure we'll surge in Afghanistan. But then we have an arbitrary deadline by which we have to pull back the surge and we'll announce it at the time. Meanwhile, the military officials are like, what the, how's this gonna work? It's truly incredible how many civilian officials seem to think that they can dictate magical timelines to a military that is on the ground fighting. That's particularly true when you're talking about a military that is not under American control. Israel has its own rather powerful military. According to Axios National Security Advisor, Sullivan made clear in all meetings the high intensity kinetic campaign needed to transition to the next lower intensity phase in a matter of weeks, not months.

1 (32m 12s):
This is not a deadline. We understand the campaign must and will continue, but in a lower intensity, In other words, what they want is less spectacular headlines about how many people are dying. That's what they want. Let's be absolutely clear here. Israel is gonna kill as many terrorists and people who are members of that terror network as they need to in order to ensure their future. Period. End of story. Israel has no interest in killing civilians. They're not interested in doing that. Hamas is hiding behind In fact. Not only is Hamas hiding behind civilians just to show what Hamas is. Hamas apparently is literally taking dolls like baby dolls and they're connecting them to tape recorders with recorded cries of children and then connecting those to IEDs. So when Israeli soldiers go to try and save the doll, they blow up.

1 (32m 52s):
This is something that Kamas is doing literally right now. Kirby says it has to take as long. Meanwhile, John Kirby over the National Security Advisory, he said that Sullivan asked hard questions about what the next phase is gonna look like, and he said it has to take as long as they feel it needs in order to eliminate this threat. We all want this to be over as soon as possible. The last thing we wanna do is telegraph to kamas what they're gonna face in the next weeks and months. Well, that is a, again, Kirby has been way better on this than Jake Sullivan and Obama holdover with tremendously stupid ideas about how the Middle East actually works. Meanwhile, Israel is gonna have to move up north. Everybody knows they're gonna have to move up north. They're going to have to take on Hezbollah in the north because Hezbollah, again has 200,000 rockets pointed, not only at the north of Israel, but all over Israel.

1 (33m 35s):
Israel has already moved 30,000 citizens off the border. They've been out of their homes for full on two months at this point. What is truly amazing is to see the propagandists at work against Israel with regard to the, so-called two State Solution. So let's be clear about this. I mean it, it's truly amazing. There are people who very often I think do fine on cable tv, do a decent job on cable TV and they'll say things like, I wish Israel would end the blockade in occupation of Gaza. Israel ended the occupation of Gaza in 2005. The only reason they left a blockade in place is because Hamas took over and if they had not had a blockade, Hamas would've been shipping in nothing but weaponry from Turkey. Israel tried the whole two state solution thing by basically handing over the Gaza Strip to a terror group and they got October 7th and rocket attacks every five minutes.

1 (34m 19s):
There are people in Israel who left to live underground for like weeks at a time because of the rocket attacks. Meanwhile, in the West Bank, Israel tried for 30 years to hand over the West Bank to the Palestinian authority. They had peace deals that were rejected in 94, 2000, 2001, 2008. All of those peace deals walked away from by the Palestinian authority. And meanwhile, you have people who keep mouthing these platitudes about the two state solution. With whom? With whom. So yesterday the Israeli ambassador to the UK sippy hotly, she was asked by a reporter about the two state solution. She's like, no, by the way, approval for a quote unquote two state solution now among Israelis 7%. Why do you think that is?

1 (34m 60s):
Why do you think that is? Israelis have been desperately attempting to hand control over Palestinian Arab areas, two Palestinian Arab leadership for for decades at this point. And no one will take them. No one. The Jordanians won't take them, the Egyptians won't take them. Palestinian leadership won't take them because they would prefer to continue to promote the idea that they're going to destroy Tel Aviv and take it. So who exactly I, I'm consistently amazed by the idea that the media know what the F they're talking about. They don't. They say things like two state solution is though it's self manifesting. Like if you say it enough times, Beetlejuice appears. If you just say two state solution, often enough, a moderate air bleeder, Anwar AllSat appears and magically makes peace. Or alternatively, the Palestinians are extremely prot terror by every available poll.

1 (35m 44s):
The Networks of terror run incredibly deep. The educational system in both the West Bank and the Gaza Strip promotes the murder of Jews and does it since the time the Palestinian youngsters are incredibly young. But if you say two state solution, apparently this makes you magically immune from criticism and it makes you a moral person. And if you say no to state solution because it's absolutely irrelevant and stupid to talk about a two-state solution when the, when one of the parties to the quote unquote solution does not exist, then of course you're bad. This is the ridiculous game you see being played by the media. So yesterday on Sky News, here was the Israeli ambassador to the uk.

6 (36m 19s):
Is there still a chance for a two-state solution?

7 (36m 21s):
I think it's about time for the world to realize the Oslo paradigm failed on the 7th of October and we need to build a new one and in order to build a new one. But

6 (36m 29s):
Does that new one include the Palestinians living in a state of their own? Is that what it includes?

7 (36m 36s):
I think the biggest question is what type of Palestinians are on the other side? This is what Israel realize. Seven, do they have a state? The answer is absolutely no. And I'll tell you why.

6 (36m 44s):
Well then

7 (36m 45s):
At the moment, have peace can answer. The reason there is no peace Israel is because the Palestinians

6 (36m 49s):
Without offering mark a state to Palestine. Mark, how couldn't there be peace in

7 (36m 54s):
Israel? Israel knows today and the world should know. Now, the reason the Oslo courts failed is because the Palestinians never wanted to have a state next to Israel. They want to have a state from the river to the sea.

6 (37m 4s):
So the two state solution is dead.

7 (37m 6s):
Why are you obsessed with a formula that never worked that created this radical people in the other side? Why are you obsessed with that? Think about it. Is that normal to carry on with a solution that never worked in the past? The Palestinians kept on denying and now it'll create another terror state. Israel is not interested in that. Finally,

1 (37m 23s):
Of course she's correct. Of course she's correct. By the way, Jordan was in control of the West Bank from 1948 to 1967, and not once did they discuss the possibility of an independent Palestinian state in the West Bank. Egypt was in control of the Gaza Strip from 1948 to 1967. At no point did they discuss the possibility of an independent Palestinian state. Why? Why is there was no call for the Arabs to do it? Why? And the answer is 'cause everyone knew it would be a terrorist state immediately. Everyone knew this. Where else in the world? Honest to God, where else in the world is there an open actual call for the creation of a state everyone knows will be a terrorist state. It's totally insane. It's totally insane. October 7th happens, 1200 Jews are slaughtered. Another 240 are taken prisoner, captive into the gossip strip and the world is like, what sort of concessions can you offer?

1 (38m 6s):
What the, this is like honest to God, it's like saying after nine 11 to the United States, shouldn't you help set up an Al-Qaeda state in in Afghanistan? I mean, after all, they have some grievances. Shouldn't you help set up an Al-Qaeda state, not just a Taliban state, an Al-Qaeda state, like specifically for those people? Shouldn't you do that? What? What sort of concessions can you offer them? Only Israel's demanded this sort of nonsense. The two state solution was idiocy from the time it was initiated by Oslo. It was stupidity. It was put forth by people like Shimon Perez who's completely delusional about the way the world actually works. He was actually a believer at the time that borders would disappear in the Middle East. He was a believer in the idea that there would be a giant confederation of Jews and Arabs in the Middle East. That would be completely peaceful because economics would overtake everything else.

1 (38m 48s):
Yeah, that worked. That was great. Again, the mouthing delusional notion about how the world works does not manifest the delusional notions. It just gets people killed. That's what Israel found out between Oslo and October 7th. And now they're done with that and they should be done with that. And people will continue to say dumb crap like two state solution without any leadership on the other. Israel would give the West Bank to Jordan today and then be up to Jordan to create a Palestinian state. You think Jordan would do it? Jordan won't even take it. Jordan won't take it. Israel has offered the Gaza strip to the Egyptians over and over. The Egyptians will not take it. Now, just think about that for a second. Think about how crazy that is. The Egyptians could take it and then they could set up a Palestinian state.

1 (39m 28s):
They don't want it because they would not allow a Palestinian state to be set up there. They would be presumably engaging in exactly the same activities that Israel is engaging in right now. In fact, there's a reason why Egypt won't allow anybody from the Gaza Strip through their border. It's not because they want the historic land claims of the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip to be maintained. Israel doesn't even care whether Palestinians live there. There's no actual Jewish claim to the Gaza Strip in any serious measure. If you go back to biblical times, the Gaza Strip was never considered a part of biblical Israel. Even there's never been a massive settling movement. For example, in the Gaza Strip, there was some in the north of of the Gaza Strip and that was about it. It's like gush Katif, that's it. The goosh katif region. There were some people living there, but it was never as though the Gaza Strip was ever considered like this very fundamental part of the biblical land of Israel.

1 (40m 14s):
Okay? But the bottom, bottom line is Israel evacuated it. Okay? If Egypt, if Israel handed it over to Egypt and Egypt would wanna create a Palestinian state, you know what happened? Nothing. The reason the Egyptians won't let the Palestinians into the Sinai Desert is not because they're deeply worried about Palestinian rights in Jabaliya. It's because they are worried about Palestinian people who are radicalized inside their own borders. They don't want them. Alright, in just one second, we'll get to the latest from campus where again, antisemitism continues to be a major issue.

Renewal by Andersen (40m 44s):
First, for most homeowners, window replacement isn't something they've done before. For many others, it isn't something they want to do, but rather something they have to do. If your windows are cracking or warping or your house is too hot or too cold, you need to call Renewal by Anderson. If you put off replacing the windows in your home because it's too expensive, I have good news. You can Get a free in-home window Consultation and a free quote from Renewal by Anderson. Renewal by Anderson's signature service is committed to giving you the best customer service experience possible, supported by the best people in the industry. Right now, Renewal by Anderson is offering a free in-home or virtual Consultation on durable quality, affordable windows or patio doors. For $0 down, zero payments, zero interest for one year. Text SHAPIRO to 200 300 for your free Consultation Save 3 25 bucks off every window and 750 bucks off every door. These savings aren't gonna last long. Be sure to check it out. Text SHAPIRO to 200 300. That's Shapiro to 200 300 Texting Privacy policy and terms and conditions posted at text plans, us texting, enrolls for recurring automated text marketing messages, message and data rates may apply. Reply, stop, drop out. Go to window appointment now.com for full offer details.

1 (41m 45s):
Also, The Daily Wire is excited to announce the search for our newest position, head of studios at The Daily Wire, it's like a big job. This role offers an incredible opportunity to shape the future of our company's rapidly growing entertainment division. At The Daily Wear, we create unforgettable content for our audiences through film, tv, podcast, merchandise, and more. You can be a part of it. Your leadership will be front and center as you drive the company's creative vision through expert content development, strategic partnerships, audience expansion, and widespread product distribution. Don't miss out on this extraordinary opportunity to do brilliant work that matters every single day. If you're interested in joining our team, visit DailyWire dot com slash Careers. That's DailyWire dot com slash Careers today. Also this Sunday, a new episode of The Ben Shapiro Show Sunday special drops.

1 (42m 25s):
Our guest, Tim Kennedy, distinguished green brat Sniper, UFC headliner. In this episode, we'll not only honor Tim's military achievements, also confront some hard truths he's encountered in war zones and at our southern border. Here's a little bit of what it looks like.

8 (42m 39s):
I have a a Journal here that every time I traveled overseas I would write what was happening and, and what I I, I felt. I said, I find this sad, pathetic, but ironic. Not only a few nights ago did we track down and kill a man as he ran home trying to avoid us maybe to survive, maybe just to live another day. And there his wife and his children saw him die. Are our actions justified? How many more terrorists have I just created? I killed their dad. I just made a family of terrorists, didn't I? don? Don't know. How is this gonna turn out? Did I just make the wagon wheel roll? Just one more time. On our very first mission, we shot this man running back into his home.

8 (43m 23s):
don don't know what to do. don don't know if this is right, don don't know where morality is in board.

1 (43m 33s):
If you haven't become a member here at DailyWire, now is a perfect time. Go to DailyWire dot com slash subscribe. Become a member today. Remember the episode drops this weekend. You're not gonna wanna miss it. Meanwhile, over at Harvard University, things continue to be very, very rough. So Claudine Gay, the president of Harvard, she's the one you'll remember who actually went in front of Congress and said that it depends on context whether calling for genocide of Jews is violative of Harvard policy. Well, she actually attended a Menorah lighting in an attempt to cover for her own idiocy and anti-Semitic fellow traveling. This Menorah Lighting was supposed to be a great moment for her. She was showing solidarity with the Jewish community. Now again, I know Harvard really well. I know everybody at Harvard really well. I went to Harvard Law between 2004 and 2007.

1 (44m 13s):
One of the people I know pretty well over there is at Rabbi Hershey's Ari. He is the Habad rabbi over at at Harvard. I've known Rabbi Aki for, as I say, n on 20 years at this point. Rabbi Zaki is not a particularly political actor like at all. He tries to stay strenuously, apolitical. That's what Habad by the way, tends to do wherever they are because Chabads entire goal is simply to bring Jews into more religious practice, which is why you'll be walking around a city street and you'll see like a Habad rabbi with a pair of fill in, right? With Phylacteries offering to Jews to help them rap to fill in. Like that's what they do. But Hershey's a here right in front of Claudine Gay, he says the thing, he points out that at Harvard when they put up their giant menorah, and again, that's what Habad does pretty much everywhere.

1 (44m 57s):
You can go to literally any Chabad in America and they have giant menorah out in the front yard. When Harvard Chabad does this, well, they have to take it down every night and they have to take it down every night because they're afraid the anti-Semites will rip it down.

9 (45m 10s):
You know what happens to the menorah after everyone leaves the yard, we're gonna pack it up. We have to hide it somewhere. The university, since that first Hanukah, would not allow us to keep this menorah here overnight because this fear that it'll be vandalized. That's the reality of the Jewish community at Harvard today. We have to pack up our menorah when we're done. Students have to remove anything. Some students feel they have to remove anything about their physical appearance that suggests that they're a target. We have work to do friends, and we're delighted to have President Gay with us. But it's my hope, and I know I speak for everyone here, that we can work together with you and your and your and your dedication to be.

9 (45m 57s):
As we sold recently in the email you were referred to as our president. We in the Jewish community are longing for a day that we could refer to the president of and all of Harvard as ours too. That Harvard has indeed not only has our back and not only allows us to finally put up a menorah, but doesn't force us to hide it at night.

1 (46m 21s):
By the way, this is a problem all over the United States, not just on campuses, apparently. According to Breitbart, a menorah set up for Hanukkah at Oakland's Lake Merit and the heart of the city was vandalized. Early on Wednesday, leading to condemnation by local officials, Oakland Mayor Shang Tao, who had participated in the Menorah lighting ceremony at the site just days before issued a statement blasting the desecration and act of vandalism, which appears to be a blatant act of anti-Semitism graffiti at the site. Read your org is dying. We're going to find you. You're on effing alert, a-hole. Parts of the menorah were thrown into the lake. Again, they were strewn on the sidewalk near 12th Street and Lake Merritt Boulevard and this of course follows hard on the news that 18 was arrested and charged with planning a mass shooting at an Ohio synagogue recently, according to local NBC affiliate three News, they obtained the documents from a Stark County Court official.

1 (47m 5s):
It showed the teen has been charged with two misdemeanors, including inducing panic and disorderly conduct. Apparently, this person did create a detailed plan to complete a mass shooting at the Temple Israel on the Discord platform, which was reported to law enforcement and required an immediate investigatory response and notification of public officials. This particular antisemitic incident predates the October 7th attacks by Hamas, but these are the conditions under which a lot of Jews across the country are living. There's a reason why Jewish gun ownership is going up wildly, and it should. Every law abiding citizen who knows how to defend him or herself should own a gun, and this is the reason why. Okay, in just one second, we'll get to the latest on Joe Biden and Hunter Biden. The polls continue to be very bad for the president of the United States

Grand Canyon University (47m 47s):
First, The Ben Shapiro Show is supported by Grand Canyon University, an affordable private Christian university with a vibrant campus in beautiful Phoenix Arizona ranked Tap 20 in the country by niche.com. GCU U is a missional Christ Ed University that strives to foster a culture of community giving an impact. GCU U'S goal is to help you develop into a servant leader who makes a difference through finding a purpose. With 330 academic programs and over 270 online, as of June, 2023, GCU integrates the free market system with a welcoming Christian worldview into your bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree. You'll have support from your own university counselor who takes a personalized approach to helping you achieve your goals. Find your purpose at Grand Canyon University Private Christian affordable visit gcu.edu today.

1 (48m 26s):
Okay. Meanwhile, the polls are showing that Joe Biden continues to trail in every single battleground. According to Mediaite, a new round of polling in seven key swing states votes poorly for President Biden, indicating he trails Donald Trump in every single one in Wisconsin. He's down four two Trump 45, 41 in Georgia. He's down six In Michigan. He's down four in Pennsylvania. He's down two in Nevada. He's down three in North Carolina. He's down nine and these are terrible numbers for Joe Biden in Arizona. He's down four very, very bad numbers for Joe Biden because again, all of the focus right now is on Joe Biden. Now, the Biden administration is hoping that the Federal Reserve is going to save Joe Biden, that by bringing down the inflation rate, they're gonna be able to basically bring down the interest rates several times next year, loosening up the economy and leading to a feeling of prosperity in the United States Ka Jean-Pierre, she out yesterday saying that Biden Os is working because the stock market is at record highs.

10 (49m 18s):
Look, as it relates to omics, the president I just announced at the top of the briefing, he's gonna go to Milwaukee. He's gonna talk about bio omics investing in America. What, what omics has done for the American people coming out of the pandemic. We can't forget what happened when the president walked in. We saw a literally the economy at a tailspin and the data shows, as you just mentioned in your question, inflation is moderating and you see jobs created at more than 14 million jobs. Unemployment is at under 4%. All of those things is part, is part of omics, and you will certainly hear the President talk more about that.

1 (49m 52s):
Okay, well, the president can talk about it however much he wants. The bottom line is that consumers right now are still spending, because again, they have that inflated money in their pocket and they realize that the inflation is cooked into the books. It takes a little while for people to realize that inflation has actually moderated, especially when inflation is still running at three plus percent as opposed to 2%, which was the Fed's target rate. The real problem here is that when you look at things like the stock market, corporate earnings are not actually keeping up with the stock market right now. People are invested in the stock market at very high rates because the currency is inflated. When the currency is inflated, you stop investing in bonds and you start investing in stocks. Well, now it appears that the bond prices are going up because we're not gonna be raising interest rates anytime in the near future.

1 (50m 34s):
So bond prices are going up. This has also created a feeling of economic health in the stock market. People pouring money into the stock market. The problem is then the stock market, the PE ratios are really, really high. Those would be the price equity ratio, the price earnings ratios. Those price earnings ratios are really, really high. So Benjamin Graham, the famed investor who is sort of the intellectual godfather of Warren Buffett, he sought price earnings ratios around 15 times that the price of the company should be a multiple of its earnings by about 15, but no higher than that. Well, right now, the so-called Magnificent seven, which are the companies that are basically driving all of the growth in the stock market or a huge percentage of the growth in the stock market. These would be companies like Nvidia, apple, Amazon, alphabet, meta, Microsoft, Tesla.

1 (51m 21s):
Those companies are up around 70% year to date. If you took them outta the s and p 500, the index would be up around 6% as opposed to the eye popping gains that you are seeing in the broader stock market indices. The s and p 500 is up more than 21% so far this year. If you took out those seven companies, it's up 6% and the PE ratios on those companies is 55 0. That's not sustainable in the long run PE ratios of 50, that is betting very heavily, those companies are gonna be able to ramp up their earnings. Obviously, if they're not able to ramp up those earnings, then the pricing mechanism is way out of whack. So the suggestion would be theoretically that when the inflation stops, that the stock market will continue, it'll, it'll hold stable.

1 (52m 4s):
The money will be worth more, people will, will essentially hold stable their stocks. They're not going to divest because why would you take your money out of a a stock market? That's done pretty well. But stocks are overpriced. This is the reason why Warren Buffett is selling stocks right now, and again, inflation has not totally been conquered. But the real problem here is gonna be economic stagnation. I've been talking about gross output as a statistic for quite a while here. Gross output doesn't just measure spending at the last layer of the economy, which includes an enormous amount of government spending. It includes business startup investment, and that's down the first couple quarters of 2023. It's been down 9% gross, gross output. Yeah, I, we haven't seen a Q3 stat yet on that. I can't imagine it's gonna be very strong.

1 (52m 44s):
Business starts. I mean if, if you are in business, you feel it Also. Right now, if you're in business, this is not a boom time. Nobody really thinks this is a boom time outside of a few core companies. Meanwhile, you know, as Joe Biden continues to fade in the polls, the really bad news for the Biden administration, the Kamala Harris is still the backup here. She was spewing word salad yesterday.

11 (53m 3s):
We all watched the television coverage of just yesterday. That's on top of everything else that we know and don't know yet based on what we've just been able to see. And because we've seen it or not, doesn't mean it hasn't happened, but just limit it to what we have seen.

1 (53m 23s):
I don't even know what that means. Does she speak English? I do not know. So both the president, the president doesn't speak English 'cause he's no longer functional and vice president doesn't speak English because I Was she ever fun? I don don't even know. don don't even know what's going on with Kamala Harris. Woo boy. Artie. Coming up, we'll jump into the continued questions over whether a deal will be reached on Ukraine, Israel, Taiwan, and border funding. You're not gonna wanna miss it. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

Genucel (53m 56s):
I've got a holiday gift idea that's sure to make you the hero of the season. Now we all know the holidays can be a little bit hectic. The shopping, cooking, never ending list of all the things to do. This is why you need the gift of Genu Cell Skincare From now until Christmas, Gen's most popular package has a special discount. Just for my listeners at Genucel dot com slash Shapiro, treat yourself and your loved ones to the absolute best skincare in the world. These troubling forehead wrinkles, fine line skin, redness, sagging jawline, all that disappears right before your eyes. With genus cell's most popular collection Genus Cell promises immediate effect, you'll see results in less than 12 hours guaranteed, or your money back. Plus, included in every most popular package is your free hyaluronic acid serum for skin hydration. To restore that youthful appearance, genus Cell has sent a ton of products to the office. People are loving it again. My family's been using Genucel products for like a decade. At this point, you deserve to look and feel your best this holiday season. Head on over to genu sell.com/ Shapiro and get this incredible holiday discount. Every order today is instantly upgraded to free express shipping. That's genu sell.com/ SHAPIRO today. Again, genu sell.com/ Shapiro to get started.