0 (0s):
When it comes to Israel's current war against Hamas, there is a clear gap between the sides. On a Moral level, one side, Hamas and its allies seeks to murder civilians. That's why they slaughtered 1,400 innocent Jews in Israel and have planted their military sites directly in civilian areas while attempting to stop their own civilians from escaping those areas. Hamas openly acknowledges they say that they use civilians as human shields. The other side, Israel seeks to save civilians. That's precisely why Hamas locates its military assets in civilian neighborhoods. If Israel were truly a human rights monster that didn't care about civilians, Hamas would have no incentive to shield its weapons. With innocent Goins on the one side, Hamas has a health ministry that routinely lies. In 2014, for example, Hamas' Interior Ministry website issued instructions to online activists, including the following statements.

0 (46s):
These are direct quotes, quote, anyone killed or martyred is to be called a civilian from Gaza or Palestine. Before we talk about his status in Jihad or his military rank, don't forget to always add innocent civilian or innocent citizen in your description of those killed in Israeli attacks on Gaza They also say quote, avoid publishing pictures of rockets fired into Israel from Gaza City sensors. This would provide a pretext for attacking residential areas in the Gaza strip unquote. Because Kamau runs a tyrannical terrorist, state, media members are routinely told what to report, which is why that same year in 2014, the Washington Post admitted that when it comes to body counts, the Hamas Health Minister was quote, the only game in town they threatened reporters. That same minister acknowledged that he maximized the count of civilian casualties.

0 (1m 27s):
The New York Times in 2014 recognized that Hamas inflates such statistics as well. The other side, Israel is a democracy with high levels of transparency. A free press, a robust democracy with highly aggressive opposition parties. The current Prime Minister of Israel has been dragged by that media and opposition through scandal after scandal. That doesn't mean that Israel doesn't get things wrong, it does mean that Israel does not make lying. Its central principle in military matters. One side, Hamas and its esteemed colleagues in Palestinian Islamic Jihad has a very long history of firing rockets that end up hitting their own people. In 2022, for example, Israel estimated that some one fifth of all 1000 Palestinian Islamic Jihad rockets fell within Gaza. During the current war, over 7,000 rockets had been fired at Israel.

0 (2m 9s):
At least 400 of them fell short and hit Gaza. Here are just some video examples from the recent past.

1 (2m 15s):
On October 17th, Islamic Jihad destroyed a hospital in Gaza when a rocket aimed toward Israel misfired and landed in Gaza. This isn't the first time while thousands of rockets are fired toward Israel, rockets fail. These failed rocket launches cause mass destruction and the death of countless innocent individuals inside Gaza.

0 (3m 1s):
Now, here's a map of all the failed launches. During this war alone. You can see this map blankets the entire Gaza strip from south to north. One side. Israel has a precision military that seeks to hit as many military targets in as efficient a way as possible. Then military routinely passes up shots on military targets if too many civilians will be harmed. So with all of this said naturally, when a hospital allegedly blew up in the Gaza strip yesterday afternoon, and Hamas immediately claimed that the explosion was an Israeli airstrike and that 500 people had been killed, the media used their heads. They decided to wait for all the information to emerge because you know Hamas are liars. Nah, just kidding. They went with Kamas report because this is what they do. As it turned out, Kamas was as usual, lying, lying from beginning to end, a failed Palestinian Islamic Jihad rocket hit the hospital.

0 (3m 46s):
Actually to be more accurate, it hit the parking lot next to the hospital doing no apparent structural damage to the building. We still don't know how many people actually died. We don't know the real number of casualties. It took Israel weeks to determine how many people had died in the assault on its southern border, Hamas throughout the number 500, within 15 minutes of the rocket falling, there's only one reason the media jumped to listen to Hamas. The media have an insanely strong stake in creating Moral equivalence between Israel and its terrorist opponents. They operate Andre, a soft headed mindset that seeks Moral parity between parties to a conflict. But as it turns out, they only seek that Moral parody when one of the parties is Jews. If we're talking about say, Russia, Ukraine, the American media treat every Russian claim with a grain of salt and believe pretty much everything put out by the Ukrainian government.

0 (4m 29s):
If we're talking about a full on terrorist group that just slaughtered babies, however, our media are suddenly shockingly credulous. They suddenly believe what the terrorists have to say. How interesting, how revealing what we're actually watching in real time as a genocidal Jew hating terror group laundered a lie about a Jewish massacre of innocence at a Baptist hospital is what we call a blood libel. That term dates back to the year 1144 when Jew haters charged the Jews of Norwich England with ritually murdering a young boy named William for religious purposes. Frequently such blood libels claim that Jews used Christian blood to bake Passover Matzah similar blood Libels were used for centuries all the way through the time of the Nazis. They're still repeated very frequently in Arabic language media in the Middle East.

0 (5m 9s):
The goal is obvious to turn the Jews into monsters and thus to justify their murder. Blood libels historically have led to pogroms, to expulsions, to genocide, targeted against Jews blood libels end in actual blood. Now, the same is true right here. Hamas retailed a blood libel. This is a blood libel, and the media credulously picked it up. Their sudden, credulity has consequences. Very deep consequences. People are going to die because the media bit Hamas' hook here. But again, that's really nothing. New legacy media hatred for the state of Israel is decades old, really dating back to the post 67 era and has caused thousands of lives on all sides. If the West had taken seriously Hamas' own words, or for that matter, the words of the Palestinian authority and Islamic Jihad, Israel never would've been forced into dangerous concessions to terrorist groups that have ended with thousands of deaths.

0 (5m 54s):
But the media continued to pretend that Moral equivalence is the story in the Middle East. It's a comforting, easy story. They lie, or at the very least, they pretend that Israel's enemies have serious credibility. Those lies cost Blood.

ExpressVPN (6m 6s):
Today's show sponsored by ExpressVPN. Do you like your web history being seen and sold to advertisers? No, me neither. Get ExpressVPN right now at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (6m 14s):
Okay, so here's the actual story of what happened yesterday. So late in the afternoon, in the early evening Israel time, a story emerged that a Palestinian hospital in the Gaza Strip a Baptist hospital, had been hit by an Israeli airstrike. That was the story that was originally promulgated. And the headlines for the media just parroted whatever Kamas told them, 500 dead. It was an Israeli airstrike. It targeted a hospital. It was designed to kill as many civilians as possible. And obviously that story was also designed to drop at the same time that President Biden was arriving in Israel. So here were the original headlines from all of these outlets. C n N quote, hundreds killed an Israeli strike on Gaza Hospital. Palestinian officials say, now, first of all, you should note how these headlines are written.

0 (6m 54s):
They're all written the same way. The way they are written is the claim. And then at the very end of the claim, Palestinian officials say, now, if you let off with Palestinian officials, say hundreds killed an Israeli strike on Gaza Hospital, everybody would know to take it with a bit of a grain of salt. Because you know, Kamas lies, they literally lie for a living. It's what they do. Instead, all of these headlines lead off with the claim. And then comma, Palestinian officials say, Reuters hundreds killed an Israeli airstrike on Gaza hospital health authorities, whoever are the health authorities, they don't mention it. That would be Hamas. The Wall Street Journal. Israeli airstrike on Gaza Hospital kills more than 500 Palestinian officials say Al Jazeera English Israeli air attacks have killed hundreds of Palestinians in all Ali Arab Hospital in Gaza City, where thousands are seeking medical treatment and shelter from heavy bombardment.

0 (7m 36s):
B B C news. Hundreds of people have been killed in an Israeli strike on a hospital in Gaza, according to Palestinian officials, like every major newspaper in the world. Let, it was the front page. It was literally the front page. It was the top headline. Every single newspaper in the world bought into Hamas' story. So what actually happened? What actually happened is that Islamic Jihad Palestinian Islamic Jihad, which has thousands of rockets in the Gaza Strip, they were firing rockets on Israel because you know that's, it was a night ending in Y, and so it's time to try to kill some Jews in Oone or something. And so they started firing rockets into Israel and shock of shock. It turns out that one of their rockets fell short. How do we know that? Well, as we'll see, because all the evidence says so, visual evidence, audio evidence, geo-locating evidence, all of it says so.

0 (8m 21s):
So the media didn't just get it wrong, they bought a terrorist lie broadcasted to the world, and then they're slowly having to backtrack that lie. It's too late though, because once the lie is out there, this will now be the story and it will cost lives. I'll get to more on this in a moment.

Pure Talk (8m 34s):
First, Pure Talk announced last week they would alleviate $10 million in veteran debt by Veterans Day. How? By giving a portion of every new order to this cause Thanks to your support, Pure Talk is 27% to their goal. With three weeks to go, our veterans gave everything to protect the nation. Pure Talk understands the sacrifices they've made. When you switch to Pure Talk's Lightning Fast five G Network, they will donate a portion of every new order to this noble clause. You can make a real difference just by choosing superior cell phone service. Pure Talk's, plans started just 20 bucks a month, offering unlimited talk text, more data, and a mobile hotspot. Just go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro, make the switch. Let's rally together and show our unwavering support for our veterans. Visit Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Switch to Pure Talk today. It's the right move. It's the American way. By the way, their cell phone coverage is fantastic. They have a great tower network. I know because I use Pure Talk for all of my calls. You should do the same. You're gonna save money. Also, it's a company that doesn't hate your guts. So head on over to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Switch on over to Pure Talk today. Again, they are right now helping to alleviate debt for veterans. So you're doing something for a good cause as well. Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro switched to Pure Talk today.

0 (9m 36s):
Okay, so the I D F waited until they could actually gather the evidence, and then they revealed that actually, no, it was not an Israeli airstrike on a, on a hospital. In fact, Israel goes out of its way not to hit hospitals. How do we know this? Well, because as I've said multiple times on this show and others, all Shaha Hospital in the Gaza Strip is located directly above Hamas headquarters. This has been well known for decades at this point, for literally decades. So, you ask, why hasn't Israel just taken down the hospital? Because it's a hospital? That's the reason Israel didn't take down the hospital for literally, everyone knows it is not a giant secret. It's reported on Wikipedia that Alfa Hospital is located on top of Kamas headquarters, but Israel doesn't blow it up. Why? Because Israel understands that the, the human damage and the public relations damage that would be done by doing such a thing would be catastrophic.

0 (10m 23s):
So yesterday the I D F spokesperson revealed that actually Islamic Jihad fired the rockets that fell short Here. He was announcing that yesterday.

3 (10m 31s):
I wanna give you an announcement of the event that occurred in the hospital in Gaza. I can confirm that an analysis of the I D F operational systems indicates that a marriage of rockets was fired by the terrorists in Gaza passing in close proximity to the El Almadi hospital in Gaza at the time it was hit. Intelligence from few sources that we have in our hands indicates that the Islamic JI is responsible for the failed rocket launch, which hit the hospital in Gaza. I repeat this is the responsibility of Islamic Jihad that killed innocence in the hospital in Gaza

0 (11m 15s):
So, you say, but I don't know who to believe. Should I believe the official military of Democratic ally of the United States, or should I believe the terrorist group? Well, good news Israel actually then provided evidence that it was a Palestinian Islamic Jihad rocket. So first of all, there is surveillance footage from one of the mo sham that is one of the villages that is located around the Gaza Strip. It was one of the places that was assaulted during the Hamas attack on Southern Israel. This is surveillance footage from Naif Hara, and it shows the barrage of rocket fire from Gaza. You will see in this footage that one of those rockets doesn't make it all the way out. And where does it go? Where does it go? You see, there, you see the Gaza border, right? You see the Gaza wall. Look at the, look at the rockets go up. Hey, here they go. All the rockets are, are going up into the sky aimed at Israel, and a mere moment later, you'll see an obvious projectile from the exact same direction falling directly into the hospital area.

0 (12m 9s):
Okay? So there are the rockets going up and boom, something came down. What? The timing is almost. Why, why, why? Look at that. It looks exactly as though a rocket failed, because that's precisely what happened. A rocket failed. Yeah, but don't worry. You don't have to, you don't have to rely on, you know, visual footage. Also, Al Jazeera showed it in real time. This is footage from Al Jazeera timestamped at the same time that the supposed Israeli bombing occurred. Here's what it looked like on Al Jazeera. There is the Proje. Oh, look at that. The camera stays on the, on the rocket and Uhoh, there goes the rocket and bam, down right into the middle of the Gaza strip. So there was that again, that was on Al Jazeera.

0 (12m 49s):
So that that, yes wonder. Wonderful. Yes, just a amazing, amazing work there from Palestinian, Islamic Jihad. Don't worry, that's not all the evidence. The I D F also has radar footage. They have radar footage. So here is a, a picture. This is a graphic of where the rockets were aimed. There's the rocket launch site, as you can see, if you're watching the show, you can see it in the lower left hand side of your screen. And then you can see a series of lines that are the direction of the rockets. As you can see, the hospital is located directly along the path of one of those lines. That is a, this is all taken by Israeli radar footage, but don't worry, there's more. The idea f also has drone footage of the actual site of the hit.

0 (13m 29s):
And what they show is damage done to the parking lot. So this is before and after. Okay. You can see from the top where exactly this, this rocket landed. Now you'll recall that the original report is that it, it hit a hospital square, right? It hit the hospital square. It killed 500 people. In actuality, where did it hit? Hit a parking lot. It hit a parking lot right outside the hospital. And Hamas immediately climbed 500 dead in the entire media around with it. Without any body count. Without any sort of waiting with, with nothing. Okay? As you'll see from the, from the footage here, you can see there is the parking lot. There's the hospital compound. And again, you can see the site of the fire.

0 (14m 9s):
There was no Bomb crater, no heavy ordinance crater at all. Their shrapnel on the roof, the tile roof on the building next door wasn't even damaged. They gave examples of craters caused by I d f ordinance, or I f 'cause the Israeli Air Force diameter of seven meters. There are no visible signs of craters or significant damage to buildings. There's no crater. How do we know there's no crater? 'cause there's actual pictures from the site where there's no crater. It's perfectly obvious from all available evidence that this was a rocket that failed. And in fact, we have footage directly from task, which is an Arabic station showing the actual site, and here's what it chose.

0 (14m 49s):
Now, does that look like the middle of a hospital to you, or does that look like a parking lot that got burned? Okay. You can see again, this is footage not from Israel. This is from Tass. Okay? There's people walking around the burned outskirts of a, of a parking lot that got hit, got some burned cars. So unless those cars were filled with hundreds of people, they're not 500 dead in that particular, in that particular bombing. And the exterior to these buildings is largely undamaged. They have footage from inside the chapel. You can see some of the windows got blown out and the interior of the chapel is intact. Is intact, right? You're not seeing giant bloodstains on the floor.

0 (15m 30s):
You're not seeing bodies screw everywhere. Now again, did some people die in this failed Palestinian, Islamic Jihad Rocket launch? Sure. I mean, I would assume yes. Was it 500 people? Where's the evidence? Also, even if it wasn't 500, even if it was 500 people, it was a rocket from Palestinian, Islamic, Jihad. Oh, but wait, there's more. I mean, you, you think that, but, but, but wait, there's more. Okay, I'll get to the more in just one second, because again, just in case you were thinking, well, you know that that's all circumstantial. What if I had for you evidence of Hamas members talking to one another about the failed Islamic Jihad Rocket launch? Good news, I do. I'll bring it to you momentarily.

Hillsdale College (16m 10s):
First, are you a few years or decades outta school and wondering, what the heck did I even learn? And what was the point? Well, if you went to a top level Ivy League school, then probably you are. You might even be thinking, I don't have the time to learn something new. If that's you, you're not alone. It's not too late. Hillsdale College is offering more than 40 free online courses. Learn about the works of CSS Lewis, the Rise and fall of the Roman Republic, or the history of the ancient Christian Church with Hillsdale College's online courses. If you're not sure where to start, check out Constitution 1 0 1, the meaning and history of the US Constitution. In this 12 lecture course, you'll explore the design and purpose of the Constitution, the challenges it faced it during the Civil War, and how it has been undermined for more than a century by progressivism and liberalism. The course is self-paced, So, you can start whenever and wherever you want. Our country needs more Americans to actually understand the Constitution and understand American history and can defend our freedoms against the encroachments of an increasingly large and unaccountable government. Also, we just need more people who are educated, but not by our garbage colleges. Go to hillsdale.edu slash Ben to Enroll. There's no cost. It's easy to get started. That's hillsdale.edu slash Ben to Enroll hillsdale.edu slash Ben. Now, I've been showing you footage all week of the garbage that happens at America's college campuses. That stuff is not happening at Hillsdale. Go check out Hillsdale right now. hillsdale.edu slash Ben.

0 (17m 15s):
Okay, so what if I told you that I have audio footage? Well, we do. So here's audio. This is from Hamas members talking to one another, going Uhoh, it looks like we, it looks like one of the Palestinian Islam JI HUD rockets hit, you know, near one of our hospitals. Oops.

4 (17m 31s):
Is

0 (17m 31s):
Recording Hamas operative number one. I'm telling you, this is the first time that we see a missile leg this falling. And so that's why we are saying it belongs to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad. They are saying it belongs to Palestinian Islamic Jihad. It's from us. It looks like it. Who says this? They're saying that the shrapnel from the missile is local shrapnel and not like Israeli shrapnel. What are you saying? And then the names get then silence. But God bless, they couldn't have found another place to explode. Nevermind, yes, they shot it from the cemetery behind the hospital.

5 (18m 11s):
What?

0 (18m 12s):
They shot it coming from the cemetery behind the All Mama Dani hospital in a misfire and fell on them. There's a cemetery behind it. Yes, A mamany is exactly in the compound. Silence.

5 (18m 24s):
Where

0 (18m 24s):
Is it when you enter the compound? You first enter the compound and don't go toward the city, and it's on the right side of the Alani Hospital. Yes, I know it. Oh, so, oh, but I thought it was an Israeli airstrike. I mean, according to literally every major media news outlet on the planet they just ran with Hamas' lies about it. So Kamas knew right away, and then they decided to lie about it. By the way, in that even audio recording, multiplicity of war crimes admitted in that recording, right? You're not allowed to fire a rocket from right next to a hospital. So what are they admitting to that they fired the rocket from right next to the hospital. Two, they're admitting that it fell in the parking lot near the hospital. Three, they're admitting to lying to the entire international media about all this. Now, you could make the case for the media that they're just prejudice and stupid, except that they've known for decades that the Palestinian authorities routinely lie about this stuff.

0 (19m 14s):
Routinely lie. It is not as though this is somehow not their mo. This is exactly their mo. They've been doing it for as long as they've been. This is why you wonder why it is that so many news outlets are located within Hamas controlled buildings in the Gaza Strip. The answer is because you'll be shot or you'll be hurt if you do not do what Hamas tells you to do. Everyone in the Gaza Strip knows this. It's not like Israel where you can walk around free with a camera. Hamas is a tyrannical terror state. They tell you to report a thing and you report it. And if you don't report it, they kick you out or they kill you. Everyone knows this. And yet the entire media ran with their lie yesterday because the blood libel is more important. It is purposeful. That's not foolishness. At a certain point, it becomes purposeful.

0 (19m 55s):
I dunno how many times you can promote the Moral equivalence, blood libel lie of equating actual terrorist murderers with Israelis attempting to defend themselves before he become complicit in the lie. And part of the lie, Hamas literally laundered a blood libel into full public view, and by the way, blew up the Middle East. I mean, we'll talk about that in a second. These lies have tremendous effect internationally. And you guys went all along with it, didn't you? In the legacy media? You did. And I wonder why could it be because it hits all of your political erogenous zones where you get to claim Moral equivalents between Israel and its enemies. Could it be that? We'll get to more on this in just one second, because again, the fallout from this is dramatic and the media, there're still members of the media yesterday who are insisting, no, no, no, we, we still don't know.

0 (20m 38s):
How could we know? It's a real head scratcher. All the evidence I just provided to you, audio visual radar, none of it matters to them. Many of them are still parroting it. Some of them are softly backing off. Well now we don't know. Now it's in controversy. I mean, on the one hand we do have all of this data. On the other hand, lying terrorist, genocidal Jew hat murderers say it was the Jews. I mean, who's to say it's a mystery of cataclysmic proportions? That's sort of Moral equivalence. Again, Moral equivalence in which you take an aggrieved party and you equate them to Nazis who are actual Nazis? I mean, Hamas is Nazis. Donald Trump supporters are not Nazis. Hamas are actual Nazis. When you equate those with the Jews, what you are actually doing is both rehabbing the Nazis and degrading the Jews.

0 (21m 20s):
That is the entire purpose of this exercise. And it has effects. Well guess that momentarily

PrizePicks (21m 24s):
first, something more relaxing, nice fun. The regular baseball season is, is it's officially over. Now that doesn't mean the fun has to end. That's because prize picks offers projections on pretty much every sport There is. N B A M L B N F L N H L P G A, college Sports eSports, NASCAR Tennis, M M A, disc golf, whatever you are into prize picks is the easiest and fastest way to play daily fantasy sports. You pick two to six players, you choose whether they will score more or less than their prize picks projection. You can win up to 25 times your money on a single entry. You don't compete against other people, it's you versus the projections. Plus prize picks has a reboot policy that keeps your entries in play. Even if one of your players gets injured for N F L Games College Top 25 football matchups. If you have a player who get exits the game in the first half and doesn't come back in the second, that player is rebooted. Prize Picks is the only daily fancy sports platform with injury insurance. Go to prize picks.com slash Ben. Use promo code Ben for a first deposit match up to a hundred bucks. That's prize picks.com slash Ben. Use promo code Ben for a deposit match up to $100.

0 (22m 18s):
Okay, so as I say, the media bought this, the New York Times headline crew, they were in overdrive last night. So they changed their top headline like five times. They left the picture. The picture was always the same, which is some suffering Palestinian mom and her kid. And the original headline was Israelis Strike, Israelis Strike kills hundreds in hospital Palestinian stay. Then they updated that to at least 500 dead in strike on Gaza Hospital, Palestinians say. And then they changed that to at least 500 dead in blast at Gaza Hospital, Palestinians say. So it changed from Israeli strike, kills hundreds to it killed 500. Then it changed from strike to blast. And now if you go to the New York Times, the headline is basically strike in dispute.

0 (22m 58s):
It's like Homer Simpson backing into the Bushes Media graphic edition. It's insane. But don't worry, you still have your friends over in M S N BBC to continue to lie to you that it was probably the Israelis. So here was MSNBC's. Ralph Sanchez says, well, maybe the Israelis are lying. Yeah, you're right. You're right. Probably, probably. It's the Israelis probably. So they faked the radar data, they faked the video, they faked probably it's all that probably, or Hamas our terrorists who murder babies and burn them and lie. I know it's hard for you to believe that maybe evil people are evil, but I have breaking news. They're evil. And when you cover for them, you become complicit in their evil. And our legacy media have been dedicated for decades to the proposition that evil must never be looked in the eye. It must be coddled. It must be treated as though actually they're not evil.

0 (23m 39s):
They're not maybe sure they're lying and we know they're lying, but we'll pretend they're not lying. And maybe we can, you know, maybe we can massage their shoulders and force Israel to make concessions to the, to the lying genocidal murderers. It's, it's insane. Here was MSNBC's Ralph Sanchez doing his best to try on both sides of this thing.

7 (23m 57s):
This kind of death toll is not what you normally associate with Palestinian rockets. These rockets are dangerous. They are deadly. Mm. They do not tend to kill hundreds of people in a single strike in the

0 (24m 11s):
Way. Well, maybe they didn't.

7 (24m 11s):
That Israeli high explosives, especially these bunker buster bombs that are used to target these Hamas tunnels under Gaza city do have the potential to kill hundreds of people. And we should say finally, that there are instances in the past where the Israeli military has said things in the immediate aftermath of an incident that have turned out not to be true in the long run. And the one example I'll give you is that when the Al Jazeera journalist, Shireen Abu Ale was killed in the occupied West Bank, the Israeli military initially said that she was killed by Palestinian gunman. And it was only months and months later that they admitted that it was likely an Israeli soldier who fired the fatal shot.

0 (24m 52s):
Okay? and that was a massive scandal inside Israel and turn. And you know who revealed that? It was the, the Israeli soldier who fired the shot, even with Sharin Abala, the Israeli military. Eventually they did all the research and they found that they thought that it was an Israeli military officer. Okay? So that was Israel that admitted that. But I love this. You, you really have to doubt the word of the Israelis over, over Hamas, over kamas. Like clearly Hamas are the believable party here. You know, the, the last three weeks have been just a masterclass in Jew hatred. It's amazing to watch. It's like all of Jew hating history condensed into a three week period. First, you have a holocaust level pogrom slash genocide, genocidal massacre of innocence around the Gaza Strip. And half the world goes, nah, well, maybe they deserve, no, no. We do have sympathy for the Palestinian.

0 (25m 33s):
Well, So, we saw that. Then we see the Israel can't defend itself. It's causing civilian casualties. The Jews must take it. The Jews must take it right on the chin. They must enjoy it. The Jews must simply stand there. After all, we wouldn't want this thing to escalate. We have to make sure what we just want. Peace, cease fire. Now before Israel can do anything to defend itself or get back, it's 200 hostages. That's the best thing. Then we have a full on blood libel, which is what this is parroted by the legacy media. I mean, well, I'm, I'm just, I'm wondering what's coming next As a student of Jewish history. I'm, I'm, I'm really looking forward to seeing what new anti-Semitic trope from history can be dropped directly into the middle of this conflagration of garbage. Great stuff here.

0 (26m 13s):
Media, c n n had on a senior managing editor of the military times named Kimberly Dosier. She says this, this could shift political opinion against Israel. Yes, that's the entire point. Why do you think Hamas did it? Why do you think they lied? And then why do you think you guys are touting the lie? Again, it's unforgivable for you understand what Hamas is. Hamas is a scorpion riding a frog. Of course, they're going to stinging the frog. The media are not the frog though, because here's the thing, the media know full well what the scorpion is. They're not bamboozled or shocked by this. They know what Hamas is and they report it credulously because it backs their broader narrative, which is that there is a cycle of violence in the Middle East. Not one side seeking the genocidal extermination of the other side and the other side simply wanting to be left alone.

0 (26m 54s):
I repeat for the 1000000th time Israel pulled out of the Gaza strip in 2005, leaving the entire thing to the control of the Palestinians and Hamas, and they promptly built it into a mini terrorist state that launched the worst terror attack on Jews since the Holocaust and the media immediately turn around and go back to Moral equivalence land. It's astonishing. Here we go.

8 (27m 12s):
And Jake, what those images add up to is a mass casualty event that could change the international opinion of what Israel is doing right now. It could shift international opinion against them. It's already shifted that opinion in the Arab world against Israel and is Israeli news channels are still covering hostage families. Arab news channels are covering the destruction inside Gaza.

0 (27m 42s):
So I, I noticed that you guys are all very credulous about that. Again, the cred, the, if you're that credulous about the claims of terrorist groups, it makes me think that you have some latent feelings about this conflict. Not so latent feelings. Maybe we should say, speaking of people who don't have latent feelings about this conflict, Rashida Taliban, Ilhan Omar, the terrorist caucus in the US Congress, they decided immediately to parrot Hamas' claims and blast them out at full volume Rashida TB terrorist sympathize rash. She tweeted out, Israel just bombed the Baptist Hospital killing 500 Palestinians, doctors, children, patients just like that, president. This is what happens when you refuse to facilitate a ceasefire and helped deescalate your warrant. Destruction only approach has opened my eyes and many Palestinian Americans and Muslim Americans likes me. We'll, remember where you stood. So there she is just parroting Hamas propaganda because of course she loves Hamas.

0 (28m 24s):
She, this is the Hamas caucus. Ilhan Omar, same started deal from ISIS to Hamas. Has Ilhan Omar ever met a terrorist group that she isn't fond of? Bombing a hospital is among the gravest war crimes as Ilhan Omar. Well, maybe you might wanna tell Palestinian Islamic Jihad that the idea f reportedly blowing up one of the few places the injured and wounded can seek medical treatment and shelter during a war is horrific. The president needs to push for an immediate ceasefire to end the slaughter. You notice that all the kamas caus are pushing for a ceasefire. You know why? 'cause Kamas is getting its ass kicked as well. It should. So Hanau Omar Rashida tib, again, pushing out terrorist propaganda because this is what they do for an actual living. It is, it is amazing. These are elected officials in the United States. Really, really solid stuff right there. Seriously. Good stuff.

0 (29m 3s):
By the way, the, the Hamas Caucus, adjunct scholar, a o c, she's continuing to parrot the words of her, of her fellow Hamas caucus members. She spent three minutes the other day trying to explain her calls for a ceasefire after so many Jews were murdered. This is on c n n.

9 (29m 20s):
You and several other of your colleagues released a statement calling on a, for a ceasefire in the region. But I wonder, what is Israel supposed to do about Hamas after they murdered, brutalized abducted over a thousand of their citizens? Are they supposed to just do nothing?

10 (29m 38s):
Well, you know, I think what's important to note about a ceasefire is that it's not one-sided. Hamas has been sending thousands of rockets into Israel as well. And what is important is for us to identify our goal in terms of what safety means, in terms of what defense means. And I think, but

9 (29m 53s):
If I may, congresswoman, I think the position from Israel's perspective is that there was already an attack and Hamas already committed an attack after that happened. Do you really believe that they should not respond to that?

10 (30m 8s):
I think what is important in terms of response is Israel does have a right to to self-defense. I think what we need to take a look at in this situation is if collective punishment qualifies as defense, if the block, she's

0 (30m 24s):
Such a clown. I mean, the fact that the, our Congress is filled with clowns and she's right at the, she, she's the driver of the clown car, a o c, the fact that the media prop her up as somebody who knows things, this idiot bartender from Brooklyn, or supposed to pretend that she knows things, either she's absolutely ignorant or she's just an adjunct to the Kamas caucus or both at this point, I'm gonna go with both. So Joe Biden arrived in Israel today and met with the Israeli government. In the immediate aftermath of this, he put out a statement about how outraged he was about the hit on the hospital. Again, it might have behooved him to wait for five minutes to see if the facts actually come out. Meanwhile, John Kirby, who's the national security spokesperson, he, he said that, that he would be asking that Biden would be asking Netanyahu tough questions as a friend, which is always, yeah, after, after your people get slaughtered, you know, definitely you want to answer questions from the American president.

0 (31m 11s):
Tough que. How many tough questions has Joe Biden asked Zelensky as a friend? Question. Serious, serious question. Has Joe Biden asked a lot of tough questions of, of Vladimir Zelensky in Ukraine as a friend? I don't hear that sort of language applied anywhere except with regard to the Israelis. Of course, here was John Kirby trying to again, start making the room for both sizing it. Then Biden got on the ground and he said, we'll, we, he backtracked this thing pretty strongly.

11 (31m 32s):
When he talks to the Prime Minister Netanyahu and to the war cabinet, he's gonna be doing a few things. One, he's wanting to get a sense from the Israelis about the situation on the ground and more critically their objectives, their plans, their intentions in the days and weeks ahead. And he'll be asking some tough questions. He'll be asking them as a friend, as a true friend of Israel, but he'll be asking some questions of them. He's also gonna make it clear that we continue to want to see this conflict, not, why not expand, not deepen

0 (32m 4s):
And tough questions is for, anyway, Biden immediately said, who's outraged by all this? Then today he said, in Israel, oh yeah, by the way, I noticed that the other side did it, meaning it was Palestinian Islamic Jihad. Here was President Biden saying that

12 (32m 17s):
I was deeply saddened and outraged by the explosion at the hospital in Gaza yesterday. And based on what I've seen, it appears as though it was done by the other team. Not, not you, but there's a lot of people out there. Not sure So, we got a lot. We gotta overcome a lot of things.

0 (32m 38s):
So he was asked by the way, why he believed that, and he says, what I was shown by my defense department, not by the Israelis, by the American Defense Department. The British foreign Secretary actually tweeted out yet this morning that everyone got it wrong, admitting that, that it was all a lie, that it was made up and that everyone got it wrong, including in the international community. He put out a tweet. This is James Cleverly last night, too many people jumped to conclusions around the tragic loss of life at all. Ali Hospital, getting this wrong would put even more lives at risk. Wait for the facts, report them clearly inaccurately cool heads must prevail. Oh, sad that the entire media don't give any damns about that at all. Okay, so there are natural consequences to this. Those natural consequences are gonna cost extraordinary numbers of lives and prolong this conflict and possibly widen it.

0 (33m 19s):
The media are complicit in all of that. The media have blood on their hands. We'll get to that momentarily.

Black Rifle Coffee Company (33m 23s):
First, I gotta tell you, not getting a ton of sleep recently, that means I'm more reliant than ever on my Black Rifle coffee. My team knows I need to have my black Rifle coffee every morning. It's not just me. The office in Nashville goes through 40 pounds of black Rifle coffee each week. You can get black Rifle delivered straight to your door through their subscription service. It's Coffee of the Month Club where you get premium roast sourced from the best farms worldwide. Save yourself a trip to the grocery store. Get a new exotic roast every single month. Black Rifle Coffee just launched their Halloween Pumpkin spice collection featuring the headless horseman's roast and the ready to drink pumpkin spice espresso. For those of you who love the pumpkin spice, that'd be like Michael Knowles with pumpkin spice flavors. So good. It'll haunt your taste buds for all eternity, or at least the rest of October. Stop running out of coffee. Sign up for that club subscription today. Have black Rifle coffee delivered straight to your door. Go to black Rifle coffee.com. Use promo code Shapiro. Check out for 10% off your order. That's black Rifle coffee.com. Use promo code Shapiro. Get 10% off black. Raffle Coffee is America's coffee. Again, it's what's keeping this show on the air right now. Sleep hard to come by. Black Raffle Coffee is America's Coffee.

Bentkey (34m 22s):
Also, if you haven't seen the big news from us here at DailyWire. Bentkey is our new kids content app. It launched Monday. It's officially the number one kids entertainment app in the app store. You should know this because you did it. You made it number one by downloading that new Bentkey app and experiencing it for yourself. We are so proud of this. You once again, have a space with shows Made for Kids, shows that they will love and you can trust. You don't have to monitor your kids watching when you go to Bentkey. It's the kind of content we had growing up, you know, fun, adventurous, interesting, and clean just like when we were growing up. New episodes are released every Saturday morning. That is correct. Bentkey has brought back Saturday morning cartoons. Wake up and watch new episodes from a wonderful day with Mabel McClay, Gus Plus Us Yeti Tale, and many more. If you don't yet have the Bentkey app, consider this your invitation to join the number one kids app downloaded today. It is awesome. Honestly, I'm so proud of it. My kids already love the content and I have a bunch of kids and it's hard to figure out what they can watch that's gonna be safe. I don't have to worry about that any longer because we made it right here at DailyWire with Bentkey, if you're already a DailyWire annual member, big news, you already have full access to all of Bent Key's, incredible shows at no extra cost because when you get a DailyWire Plus subscription that comes along with the Bentkey subscription, this would typically cost 99 bucks. It is included in your annual DailyWire membership for free. You can get Bentkey right now at DailyWire dot com slash subscribe.

0 (35m 37s):
Okay? Meanwhile, well, when the media launder terrorist lies into full public view, that has some pretty predictable consequences already. There are Forces in the Middle East that wish to see this conflagration spread. Now it's in the interest of America to keep this thing contained. They don't want Hezbollah getting into the war. If they do, Israel's gonna go whole hog against Hezbollah. If Israel does that, Syria may come in, Iran may come in, and suddenly you have a regional war that may expand outward to include SUNY states and may go nuclear. This is something the United States wishes to minimize in order for that to happen. However, it would really help if the media would stop promulgating blood libels against the Israelis that actually end ongoing negotiations. So already, again, you have Forces that are seeking to maximize the amount of conflict in the region. That, of course, would include Hezbollah, another terrorist group, an evil genocidal terrorist group on Israel's northern border.

0 (36m 18s):
That also happens to run the Lebanese government by proxy at this point, according to the Jerusalem post Hezbollah denounced, what the group said was Israel's deadly attack on a Gaza hospital. Again, it was a lie and called for a day of unprecedented anger on Wednesday. I mean, it's hard to have a Dave unprecedented anger in a region where pretty much every day is a day of unprecedented anger. I mean, literally every Friday it's like a day of rage over there. But protests erupted outside the US Embassy in Beirut just hours after the incident. Again, all of this promoted by the American media, these massive protests spread pretty much everywhere. So huge protests in Lebanon. That ended with the evacuation apparently, of the American Embassy in Beirut because people were trying to set it on fire.

0 (36m 58s):
There were also massive protests in Jordan. We have footage from Jordan where massive protests broke out around the Israeli embassy in Jordan. Here's what that looked like. You can see, look at the size of that protest. Of course, 70% of the population of Jordan is Palestinian Arab, which makes perfect sense because originally the entire area was quote unquote, Jordan was trans Jordan, and then trans Jordan was sliced off. The entire area was quote unquote British mandate Palestine Trans Jordan was sliced off. That became Jordan. So naturally, a huge percentage of the population is Palestinian Arab. You can see the size of the crowd. Then you had massive protests in Qatar, which is an Iranian proxy state, and Ally worked very, very closely with the, with the genocidal dictators in Iran. So here they were protesting in Qatar. See, giant protest over in Qatar.

0 (37m 39s):
There are massive protests in Iran in favor of Hamas as well. Again, look at the size of those, of those protests. Many of these devolved into into violent riots, or people at least attacking particular sites that included, for example, people who were actually shooting ordinance at the, at the Israeli consulate in Turkey. So fireworks were being shot at the Israeli consulate in Turkey. Here's what that looked like as well. It didn't stop there, by the way. A crowd tried to break into an American military base in Turkey as well. And all of this was ignited by the American media para and Hamas talking points. So again, slow clap for our geniuses in legacy media who only want peace guys. They're peace loving, truth seeking people who exacerbate every conflict they can find.

0 (38m 24s):
Apparently. Meanwhile, a massive pro Hamas crowd headed toward the US Embassy in Baghdad. So that was another thing that happened last night. All this happened overnight because again, the misinformation gets around the world before the truth can put its its pants on in the morning. Here's a massive pro crowd, pro Hamas crowd headed toward the US Embassy and Baghdad

13 (38m 43s):
In that book. Love.

0 (38m 45s):
I love, and you're seeing a lot of young males, obviously, as you would imagine in Iraq

13 (38m 51s):
In,

0 (38m 52s):
Oh, by the way, if you're wondering what these people are, are chanting, they're chanting. I quote, America is the greatest devil. So just in case you thought that this was only about hating Jews as if they weren't bad enough, they, they hate America also. So things are going great. Protesters in Beirut, as we say, the US embassy had to be briefly evacuated apparently, because protesters in Beirut were trying to get into the US Embassy. They were flying Hamas flags and draping them over the fences. Don't worry, they, they, they're not guys. We have been told by the same legacy media that the population in these areas hates Hamas. That Hamas is basically acting on its own. That the population of Gaza, they hate Hamas, Juda, Samaria, the so-called West Bank, they hate Hamas that in all of these countries, everyone is peace loving and peace seeking.

0 (39m 32s):
They all want the same thing. I'm not seeing a lot of evidence for that, but we have been told that by our legacy media, so probably we should believe it. Meanwhile, it's also hitting the West Police in Berlin actually had to set up outside a Holocaust memorial in Berlin to prevent it from being defaced and vandalized. Here's video of that last night in Berlin. Look at the police presence around the Holocaust memorial to prevent it from being defaced. Meanwhile, you saw massive protests in Canada as well in favor, Al kamas. Those continue. The West did an amazing job, by the way, in importing tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of people who sympathize with terrorist groups. That was a, that it turns out that was an amazingly smart move. So that's, that's great. Yep. That's, that's a lot of people who, if you're on, lemme put it this way, if you're on the West on an immigrant visa and you support Kamas, the West should deport you.

0 (40m 19s):
It should not be a particularly controversial statement. It seems like supporting terrorist groups, a pretty baseline thing not to do. If you wish to reside in the West, massive protest broke out in Greece as well. Terror sympathized. Were running wild in Spain. Around the globe. Around the globe. This is a thing. This is the protest in Greece.

13 (40m 33s):
3, 1, 3, 3, 3, 1, 3, 3, 3, 3.

0 (40m 42s):
So things are going really, really well. All credit to the media by the way. Remember, all those people we are told are not allied with the terrorists. You know, all those people who, who really hate the terrorists like Mabas. He's the reasonable one in this particular region. He's the head of the Palestinian authority. Well, I mean, it is unfortunate then that the Palestinian authority gave Hamas' terrorist families close to $3 million for murdering Jews. That is a thing that actually happened according to Palestinian Media. Watch the Palestinian Authority, which again, those are the moderates, those are the supposed peace partner. They'll pay families of dead Hamas terrorist, a combined total of $2.8 million to pay for slay system called the Martyrs Fund. The terrorist family would be rewarded around 1500 bucks and a $353 allowance monthly for life.

0 (41m 25s):
The family's terrorists married into receive an even higher amount. That's apparently a low estimate tho those are the friendlies, by the way. Those are the people who we, we are told actually want peace. So yeah, Israel should probably make concessions, probably a ceasefire would be necessary. Meanwhile, this had dramatic diplomatic fallout. So as I was talking about yesterday and throughout the week on the show, the reality is that everyone in the region, except for Hamas, has some interest in this thing coming to a close without being blown into a broader war. Iran doesn't want that. 'cause if this thing goes hot and Iran ends up in the war, the leadership of Iran will be dead. Okay? That's just the reality. Lebanon will be deposed. The leadership of Iran will be dead. There'll be a lot of dead bodies. There'll be a lot of horrific suffering in carnage.

0 (42m 5s):
That's what everybody is seeking to avoid at this point. But because of this false report parroted around by the media, because of that, Jordan has now canceled a summit that was to be held with King Abdullah, the dictator of Egypt, ssi and mah Abba. After the blast, they decided to cancel that and, and so that was going to be sort of the lead off for trying to figure out what happens with Gaza. That's really what those meetings are about. What happens with civilians in Gaza? Do they get some sort of temporary stay in Egypt? Do any of them wanna move out? It turns out a lot of people don't necessarily wanna live in Gaza 'cause it's actually a crappy place to live. When you're governed by either the Palestinian Authority or Islamic Jihad or Kamas, many people wanna leave. Will they be allowed to? Where would they go?

0 (42m 45s):
That's what those meetings were gonna be about. What comes after Kamas instead, that got canceled because of this false story that was touted around the world by legacy media. According to the times of Israel, the White House confirmed that the Jordan portion of Joe Biden's trip to the Mid East has been canceled. He was supposed to hold the summit in Aman with the leaders of Jordan Egypt and the Palestinian authority Jordan announced it was scrapping the media, the media entirely, which again, goes to show you where their hearts are. Does it not? I mean, again, why, why would that scrap the meeting? Wouldn't they want the meeting more desperately with the Americans, even if only to pressure the Americans to push the Israelis? A White House official said in a statement, the decision to scrap the Amman summit was made after Biden consulted with King Abdullah. In light of the days of mourning announced by Abbas following the hospital blast again, they, they're all, they're all playing up the lie because they want to play up the lie because they wish to exacerbate the feelings of the so-called Arab Street.

0 (43m 30s):
They've been lying to their people for decades and indoctrinating their children in the hatred of Jews. So why stop now? So that is the international situation as it currently stands. Now, how fast can this lie be debunked anybody's gas? I mean, it's, it's already been debunked in real time, but it doesn't really matter because in the end, in the end, there are too many people in legacy media who still have a stake in the preexisting narrative. They still have a, a stake in the preexisting narrative, and they're gonna continue to promote the lie. And the Arab Street will continue to pick up the lie and Arab leadership will continue to pick up the lie. Muslim leadership will continue to pick up the lie and the contract. The conflict will remain intractable, which was entirely the point. This has been entirely the point of the Palestinian conflict since the very beginning. I repeat that. If you go back to 19 47, 19 48, every war creates refugees.

0 (44m 13s):
This is what wars do. This is why there are 3.5 million Syrian refugees currently living in Turkey. The difference between Israel and its Arab neighbors is that Israel tried to encourage many people to stay, which is why 20% of Israel's population is currently Israeli Arab, meaning Palestinian Arab and also Israel took in 800,000 Jes from the surrounding regions. All of them it took in the Arab nations, took in zero Palestinian Arabs to use them as a weapon against the Jews. and that has been the story since the beginning. It continues to be the story today. And second, we'll get to what comes next internationally and the continuing crisis on America's college campuses.

ZipRecruiter (44m 45s):
First, we do things here pretty differently. At The Daily Wire, we host several of the top news podcasts in the world. We launched a Chocolate company overnight. We just took on Disney head to head by releasing a hundred episodes of kids content, tons of content. Well, you know, that means that we're constantly growing and we're constantly seeking new hires and we're constantly trying to upgrade the hires that we have. How do we do that? Well, we rely heavily on ZipRecruiter. ZipRecruiter makes your whole hiring process faster and easier. Powerful technology works for you to identify people whose skills and experience match your job. ZipRecruiter saves you time by letting you easily invite your top candidates to apply to your job, so they're more likely to apply sooner. ZipRecruiter is trusted by millions of people. In fact, over 3.8 million businesses trust ZipRecruiter with their hiring needs. Make a positive impact on your hiring future with ZipRecruiter. Four out of five employers who post on ZipRecruiter will get a quality candidate within day one. Go to ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire to Try ZipRecruiter for FREE. Again, that is ZipRecruiter dot com slash D A I L Y W I R e. ZipRecruiter is indeed the smartest way to hire. Go check them out right now. Is ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire.

0 (45m 45s):
So what comes next? Well, the White House is already discussing the possibility of what they will do if Hezbollah gets in according to axios.com. The White House has been discussing the possibility of using military force if Hezbollah joins the war in Gaza and attacks Israel with its huge arsenal of rockets. Well, that of course matters. The, even the discussion, the publicly available discussion is meant to push Hezbollah away from doing just that. and that is Smart. America does not want Hezbollah involved. Israel does not want Hezbollah involved. No one wants Hezbollah involved. I'm not even sure Hezbollah wants Hezbollah involved because if they get involved, they will not be on the map within a few weeks. But they're being forced into it by Iran, by circumstances in Gaza, by world opinion and all the rest. So the West promoting a deterrent strategy here is a smart thing to do.

0 (46m 28s):
As I mentioned yesterday. That is something that the United States should be doing. They should be pushing Hezbollah from doing this. 'cause again, if Hezbollah fires those rockets, we're not talking about 1500 dead Jews, you're talking about 20 to 30,000 dead Jews. That's how many rockets they have and they're much more sophisticated and they can overwhelm Iron Dome that that's the great fear. Two US officials said Secretary of state. Anthony Blinken told the Arab leaders in the region that the US is not fooling around by sending so many military assets to the region in support of Israel. They added that any decision to use force would be made according to the scope of the Hezbollah attack in Israel's ability to respond. This is why, by the way, you've seen Hezbollah and pinprick attacks in the north. The basic idea here is to tie down Israeli troops and material in the North to redirect them away from the Gaza strip, but not go so hard that either Israel strikes full force or that America strikes full force either.

0 (47m 13s):
Meanwhile, Joe Biden is expected to ask Congress for a hundred billion dollars package. Yet Joe Biden is trying to package together aid for Israel and Ukraine. These are two completely separate issues. They're completely separate issues and the conflict in Ukraine, I've been an advocate of America funding Ukraine to defend itself and to prevent Russia from taking over the territory. Also, the intractable battlefield conflict, which is resulting in nothing, is gonna need to have an off-ramp and the United States is gonna have to take a lead position in negotiating what that off-ramp is with the Russians. As much as I hate Vladimir Putin and think that he's a garbage human being and a dictator that, so funding for Ukraine is a much more controversial proposition than re-arming the Israelis in the face of an ongoing terrorist onslaught. Again, arming Ukraine to defend its own territory, I'm totally fine with, and that should continue because if not, then Russia wins and walks into Kyiv.

0 (47m 58s):
That is something that should be prevented. But linking the two issues, there are two completely separate issues, and congresspeople should have the ability to decide to vote up on one and down on the other, or vice versa. The fact that Biden is trying to link the two in order to cram them through is, I think, strategic bad faith. The funding levels, which would cover an entire year, they would also cover border funding and disaster aids. They're trying to lump everything together. Israel Ukraine Border Fund, another crap sandwich from the Biden administration. I I, I don't know why this has to be tied together. Many house Republicans are expressing skepticism over combining all of this together. Some of the, some of the Senate higher ups, the Democrats run the Senate. Of course, Mitch McConnell is backing the Biden proposal, mainly because he wants to make sure that the aid to Israel gets done and the border of security gets done.

0 (48m 42s):
And he's saying, we don't run the Senate or the presidency. He says, this is all interconnected, but Republicans are gonna push for a strong border element in order for that to happen. Obviously, Republicans at some point, might want to, you know, nominate a speaker. So this is the other ongoing issue. Republicans still do not have a speaker of the House. So yesterday they held a house vote 20 house Republicans voted against Jim Jordan for Speaker of the House, Steve Scalise, who is previously the person who won a behind the scenes election among Republicans over Jim Jordan. He removed his name 'cause he saw he wasn't gonna get two 17. Jordan decided to push forward and try to do a pressure campaign against various sort of congresspeople who were waiting and it didn't work. 20 Republicans voted against him for speaker of the House that included the house.

0 (49m 24s):
Appropriations, chairwoman K Ranger of Texas, representative Mario Diaz, Ballard of Florida, representative Ken Buck of Colorado, and a quartet of New York Republicans in purple districts. Many of them are afraid, as I said yesterday, that Jim Jordan is a very right wing guy. They're afraid that he's gonna do things like lead broad government shutdowns that will lose them, their seats, and therefore the house its majority. That's this, all this chaos and stupidity should just underscore how dumb it was to depose Kevin McCarthy with no plan or actual ask. It was a fit of peak from some Congress people who like TV cameras. That's, that's all it was, because so far I'm not seeing what the win is. What's the win really? What's the win? Again, the underlying incentive structure is precisely the same because if you only have 221 seats in the house, which is what Republicans have, and you majority of two 17, in order to do anything, that means five Republican congresspeople of any stripe can simply sink whatever the entire caucus wants.

0 (50m 12s):
That's what happened with McCarthy. But it can also happen from the left wing of the caucus, which is kinda what happened with Jordan yesterday. Representative Doug Alfa, a longtime representative, Kevin McCarthy Ally, who voted for him on the first ballot in the Speakers vote, told reporters that he'll vote for Jim Jordan on the second ballot. Jimenez said he would never vote for Jordan, but would consider other candidates. McCarthy is pushing for Jordan, but again, it it's unclear exactly whether Republicans can ever get to to 17 at this point. Byron Donalds, who is obviously a, a very right wing, pretty Trumpy Congress person from Florida, he says, yeah, it turns out that pressure campaign against the moderate members of Congress backfired.

15 (50m 50s):
Axios. Heading into all this was talking about the pressure campaign that had building to vote for Jim Jordan. Some were anonymously telling sources that they were getting bullied and to vote. Was any of that a turnoff for some of these members?

16 (51m 6s):
I believe it was. I've talked to a couple members where they, they felt that that's just not what they needed. I don't think that's what we should be doing right now and listen for all of the, the voters in our country. I think it's important for members to hear your voice and I totally respect that. But I think that there are members up here who they want to be able to make this decision on leadership and then move forward. I think some of the pressure campaigns have backfired. They have not worked.

0 (51m 32s):
So what exactly are the Republicans gonna do? The answer is, eh. So right now there are apparently ongoing conversations between the Democrats and some Republicans to empower Patrick McHenry, who's the interim house leader to just kind of continue with his job. So there just won't be a speaker of the House. We'll just move along with Patrick McHenry. Clearly this is a big win for Republicans. Clearly they don't look like they're a bunch of morons in a clown car shooting blanks at each other. Obviously this is well thought out. It was a Genius. Again, I'm all for a bit of a bit of boisterous activity in the house. If it actually accomplishes conservative goals, please name the conservative goals that have been accomplished by this idiotic fit of peak. Can anyone name one? Jim Jordan is still not Speaker of the House.

0 (52m 13s):
Steve Scalise is not speaker of the House. In fact, nobody's speaker of the House and hasn't been for several weeks at this point. Hakeem Jeffries is now telling C n N that his caucus is open to reaching some form of agreement with quote unquote traditional Republicans to reopen the house. They're talking about empowering interim speaker Patrick McHenry. He said, our focus right now relates not just to one, any individual, but to getting the institution reopened. I have respect for Patrick McHenry. I think he's respected on our side of the aisle. Apparently conversations between senior Democrats and Republicans have accelerated in recent days. So what is this going to end with? In all likelihood, some concessions to Democrats just to get a speaker done. So Democrats will vote for somebody slow clap, slow clap for the strategic brilliance of this entire, of this entire debacle.

0 (52m 53s):
Really, really high level stuff. And meanwhile, America's universities continue to be a Moral wreckage. A place of Moral wreckage. University of Pennsylvania is now in crisis because they have not only looked the other way on radical antisemitism, but a lot of their donors are beginning to realize they shouldn't have been sending money there. So first of all, welcome to the Party Pal. I've been saying for literally 20 years, 20 years, I've been saying that donors, conservative donors should not be giving money to left-wing colleges who promote garbage. They shouldn't be doing it. And so many people are like, yeah, but it's my alma mater. Yeah, but they still do some good things. Yeah, but yeah, but here's the thing. You shouldn't, you shouldn't. Well, university of Pennsylvania now has a problem According to C N n.

0 (53m 35s):
Former US Ambassador, John Huntsman bla blasted the University of Pennsylvania's response in recent months to anti-Semitism and his promising to halt his family's donations to the university. The strong criticism from Huntsman comes amid a growing backlash from donors and trustees. The controversy began last month when a multi-day event took place on campus at UPenn. It was called the Palestine Rights Literature Festival. UPenn has acknowledged the event included Speakers with a history of making anti-Semitic remarks. UPenn leaders issued a statement ahead of the festival, condemning anti-Semitism broadly, but not the festival specifically. A lot of powerful donors have now argued that UPenn leaders have basically allowed this to go on. UPenn leader President Liz McGill, issued a statement Sunday admitting the school did not handle the situation as well as it could have.

0 (54m 15s):
Well, here's the thing guys. This is a systemic problem. This is not gonna be fixed by putting out a statement. This, this is why also Leslie Wexner ISS nonprofit group. The Wexner Foundation, has withdrawn financial support from Harvard University after that giant student group led letter blasting Israel for the recent terrorist attacks that murdered 1400 Israelis. More of this please, more people pulling money from these garbage universities that are overcharging their students for a degree in nonsense. This is what, this is what needs to happen. Hopefully if something, anything decent can come outta this entire horrific situation, perhaps it would be the defunding of some of our worst colleges and universities. Perhaps it would be that. Alright guys, the rest of the show continues right now.

0 (54m 55s):
You guys have flooded the mailbag with questions about what's going on in Israel. I'm excited to answer all those questions, but to hear it, you must be a DailyWire Plus member. Become member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.