0 (0s):
House Speaker Kevin McCarthy announces an impeachment inquiry into Joe Biden, some House Republicans threaten McCarthy speakership. And we review the video music awards. I'm Bench Bureau.

ExpressVPN (9s):
This is the Bench Bureau show. Today's show's sponsor by ExpressVPN thousands. My listeners have already secured their network data. Join them at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (22s):
Well, it's now official. Yesterday the House Speaker Kevin McCarthy announced that there would in fact be an Impeachment Inquiry into Joe Biden surrounding all of his activities with his son Hunter, as well as presumably the coverup that's been attempted by the DOJ of any investigation into Hunter's activities, including Joe. And here's the thing. We already know a lot about this particular topic. In fact, there's a ton of evidence that's already out in public view thanks to the so-called laptop from hell. You know, the one that was supposed to be Russian disinformation that was dismissed by the entire media in the month leading up to the last election cycle. And here many of the things we know, we know that Hunter Biden has spent the last decade jetsetting around to random countries as a derelict drug addict prostitute abuser.

0 (1m 3s):
And he's been picking up bags of cash on foreign boards while calling his daddy on the phone to prove his connection to his daddy. We know that tens of millions of dollars have flooded into Hunter Biden connected businesses or directly to Hunter Biden. We know that Hunter Biden texted his own daughter suggesting that he paid his dad's bills. We know all of these things. None of that is in disputes when people say there's no evidence, like everything I just said, there's tons of evidence for all of that. Literally, the only thing missing would be the quote unquote smoking gun, namely some sort of transaction between one of Hunter Biden's businesses and Joe Biden's direct bank account But. it doesn't require that to prove bribery or corruption. And by the way, Joe Biden is not being criminally charged with bribery or corruption.

0 (1m 45s):
Here is the thing, the Democrats broke the mold and when they decided they were going to impeach Donald Trump without actually alleging a crime, not once, but twice, when they said, we are not going to attempt to push even a prosecutorial motion of what crime was committed. No statute was actually cited in either of the Impeachment papers that were filed. Instead, there were general accusations of corruption, general accusations of pressure, and they can do that because that's what Impeachment is. It's a political process. But once you say that you don't actually have to allege a crime in order to push Impeachment, and then you do it twice, why would you think it's not gonna come around and clock you again, you broke the glass. The glass is still broken.

0 (2m 25s):
And here's the reality. If Republicans did not do the same thing in reverse, well then Democrats would just continue to do this willy-nilly because there are two possibilities here in terms of going back to status quo, ante where people didn't randomly just impeach the president of the opposing party. There. There are two possibilities. One, everybody goes weapons down unless there's an actual full scale crime committed that could theoretically be prosecuted, but couldn't be because of the president of the United States is immune to federal prosecution while he's the president of the United States, right? That that would be the, the better status quo ante is that we don't prosecute every president or ex-president unless they actually commit a federal crime. And we, and, and it has to be completely even handed in how we actually pursue justice. That'd be the better version. And then there's the second version, which is we just willy-nilly impeach pretty much everybody.

0 (3m 9s):
And from here until the end of time, we impeach everybody. And you know what, I suppose we can live with that too. I suppose we can do that. I don't think it's the best thing for the country per se, but sure, I I suppose we can do that. And that is where we now are. So yesterday Kevin McCarthy announced that House Committees would open a formal Impeachment Inquiry into President Biden ramping up GOP efforts to unearth any evidence of wrongdoing ahead of the 2024 election. Here was Speaker McCarthy announcing this yesterday.

2 (3m 34s):
These are allegations of abuse, of power, obstruction and corruption, and they warrant further investigation by the House of Representatives. That's why today I am directing our house committee to open a formal Impeachment Inquiry into President Joe Biden. This logical next step will give our committees the full power to gather all the facts and answers for the American public.

0 (4m 4s):
So what sort of power is attached to an Impeachment Inquiry versus a non Impeachment Inquiry? The answer is not all that much. All these committees already had subpoena power, so now presumably they'll just have a better excuse to use that subpoena power. So theoretically, if you are subpoenaed and you're a member of the executive Branch, you can say, I'm not gonna show up. I'm not gonna testify because this is not within the normal purview of a congressional investigation. Typically, congressional investigations have one of two purposes. One is oversight of an, of a function that the executive is supposed to be performing. So I pass a piece of legislation and that piece of legislation says the executive Branch is supposed to disperse monies in a particular way. And now I'm subpoenaing the executive Branch to make sure that you did the thing that we legislated that you are supposed to do. That is possibility number one.

0 (4m 44s):
Possibility number two, when it comes to Congress and, and legitimate purpose of a subpoena would be legislative purpose is we're doing an investigation into this problem so we can then craft legislation in order to pursue an end to this particular problem. An Impeachment Inquiry provides a defense to the possibility you're doing neither of these two. So right, you're you're not actually crafting peaceful legislation on the one hand, and you're also not doing an oversight function of a, of an executive job that was delegated by the legislature. You're doing something else, another constitutionally performed duty, which is an Impeachment Inquiry. And so if somebody says, I don't wanna show up for the subpoena, theoretically, you go to court and you say, well, you have to and, and you have to more than you normally would because even though it's not legislation and it's not quite oversight, it is an Impeachment Inquiry and that is a natural function of the, of the house.

0 (5m 29s):
Now what is this really what it really is is just the Republicans saying that we are kicking this Impeachment stuff into high gear Now. there are a few problems with this particular strategy from McCarthy. Problem number one is that McCarthy is doing this without a vote. So Nancy Pelosi did do this, right? Nancy Pelosi did not take a vote of the house before she actually pursued Impeachment of President Trump. And that allowed the Trump d o j to claim that the Impeachment Inquiry actually didn't have the authority to proceed properly. So now you assume that the Biden administration's gonna do the same thing. They're gonna say, you didn't even take a vote in the house to open an Impeachment Inquiry. So why should we respect the notion this even is legally an Impeachment Inquiry? We're not gonna even acknowledge this.

0 (6m 10s):
An Impeachment Inquiry you, you can't just start an Impeachment. Inquiry was Trump's case actually when it was the Democrats in charge of Congress. Trump's case was, this is not like Michael Scott shouting bankruptcy. If you just walk into a building, you shout, I've opened an Impeachment Inquiry. This doesn't attach any new powers to you. Was the case that Trump's d o j made that can now be used, that exact case can be used by the Biden D O j against Kevin McCarthy and, and the house Republicans. That is the point Politico is making Today. In January, 2020, the Donald Trump LED Justice Department formally declared that Impeachment inquiries by the house are invalid unless the chamber takes formal votes to authorize them. That opinion was issued by the Justice department's O L C, the Office of Legal Counsel. And it came in response to Speaker Nancy Pelosi doing just that. Stephen Engel was then the head of the DO j's office of legal counsel and said, we conclude the house must expressly authorize a committee to conduct an Impeachment investigation and to use compulsory process in that investigation before the committee, they compel the production of documents or testimony.

0 (7m 3s):
So presumably the Biden administration is gonna do the same thing. Now, McCarthy was asked why he flipped on this because McCarthy had suggested not all that long ago that like, like 11 days ago, that if he was gonna move on an Impeachment Inquiry, then he was gonna do so with a house vote. Then he didn't do so with a house vote, he just declared, I've opened an Impeachment Inquiry. And, and he was asked about this and he said, well, you know, what's good for the goose is good for the gander. Nancy Pelosi did that. And now we can, we can do the same thing. Which again, is true But, it does underscore a bit of weakness in this Impeachment Inquiry, which we'll get to in just one second. First, let's talk about the weakness of the American economy right now. We've got new economic numbers coming in. We'll talk about it in a little while. I gotta tell you they're not good.

0 (7m 44s):
Okay? It people are having a hard time figuring out where to put their money. I am, I think pretty much everybody is, you put it in real estate, it looks like the real estate market is cruising for a bruising. You put it in the stock market. It looks like the stock market is overvalued when you look at like price to earnings ratios. So where do you put the money? Well, one thing you could do is take at least some of your money and put it in precious metals as a hedge, okay? That that's just a smart thing that people do. They diversify their asset base. Investors and savers are looking to harness the power of physical gold held in a tax sheltered I R a I buy gold from birch gold. I trust them to help me diversify my savings. You can protect your I R A or 4 0 1 K by diversifying with gold from birch gold. As the US dollar continues to receive pressure from foreign countries, digital currency and central banks, it's good to arm yourself with the information that you need to protect your savings tax Ben 2 98.

0 (8m 26s):
98 98, they'll send you a free information kit on gold with an a plus rating with the better business Bureau, thousands of happy customers, countless five star reviews. I trust Birch Gold to help you diversify and gold. Ask all of your questions and then when you feel secure, then start diversifying. It'll be nice to have some gold to depend on in tough times. Again, text Ben to 98. 98 98 to get started. Okay, so the, the failure to launch the Impeachment Inquiry with a vote there, there's something happening there. One of the things that's happening there is that McCarthy may not actually have a majority in the house to open the Impeachment Inquiry. In other words, he doesn't actually have all of his Republicans on board. Remember, he has an incredibly slim majority in the House of Representatives right now. And all it would require is just a few of these people to drop off and, and you don't have a majority at all in support of something like an Impeachment Inquiry.

0 (9m 12s):
Again, right now the constituency is 222 Republicans and 212 Democrats, and you require two hundred and seventeen, two hundred eighteen for the majority. So all he has to do is lose like five Republicans. And he doesn't have a majority in support of an Impeachment Inquiry. So instead he's doing it without the vote. Well, the problem is that if you don't have support to open an Impeachment Inquiry, how are you gonna actually vote for Impeachment? So is he writing a check that he then can't cash because an Impeachment Inquiry that ends with not Impeachment looks like an exoneration. If the opposing party opens an Impeachment Inquiry and then says, well, you know what? Forget it. It turns out we just didn't have the goods. That looks terrible for Republicans. So McCarthy is opening an investigation and it's unclear in which direction this is going to go, which raises the question as to why exactly he's doing that.

0 (9m 59s):
So one piece of speculation there, there's sort of the principled reason, there's the non-principal reason, both are possibilities. The principled reason to open an Impeachment Inquiry is because there's actually, as I say, tons of evidence that Joe Biden and Hunter Biden were involved in corrupt bargaining together. That that evidence is widespread. It exists, it is out there. You actually don't even need all that many additional facts. And I wonder what they think they're going to discover here that's gonna change the math. The only thing I can think that an Impeachment Inquiry might discover that we don't already know is just the level to which the D O J was pressuring people like David Weiss to cut a sweetheart deal with Hunter Biden to kill any investigation into Hunter Biden's relationship with his dad financially. Right? That's the part, that's the other shoe to drop. That presumably is why Kevin McCarthy is talking about not just corruption or abuse of power, but also obstruction of justice, right?

0 (10m 44s):
The idea that the D O J was weaponized on behalf of the Biden family in order to protect Joe from his corrupt relationship with Hunter, and that we might find out in the Impeachment Inquiry. So the principled reason to open the Impeachment Inquiry is 'cause you think you're actually going to get more information via the Impeachment Inquiry than you would otherwise. And then there's the sort of unprincipled reason, and that is McCarthy is under severe fire right now from the Matt Gaetz wing of the party. And again, that wing is really small just by by actual numbers. It is a vast minority of the Republican party. Matt Gaetz is putting a tremendous amount of pressure on Kevin McCarthy with regard to spending, and he's threatening his speakership right now. And one way, if you're Kevin McCarthy, to avoid that sort of pressure is to go back to the base and say, listen, I dunno what you want from me.

0 (11m 25s):
I'm giving you what you want. I'm giving you the Impeachment Inquiry, I'm going after Joe Biden. I'm, I'm the one who's pride concessions out of Joe Biden, who's your alternative. So maybe in response to the pressure, he opens the Impeachment Inquiry and thus avoids a speakership fight. That's the, that's the more cynical reason that you would open an Impeachment Inquiry without a vote. Here's Matt Gaetz yesterday trying to pressure McCarthy.

3 (11m 45s):
I rise today to serve notice. Mr. Speaker, you are out of compliance with the agreement that allowed you to assume this role. The path forward for the House of Representatives is to either bring you into immediate total compliance or remove you pursuant to a motion to vacate the chair. Mr. Speaker, you boasted in January that we would use the power of the subpoena and the power of the purse. But here we are eight months later and we haven't even sent the first subpoena to Hunter Biden. That's how you know that the rushed and you know, somewhat rattled performance you just saw from the Speaker isn't real at this point.

3 (12m 27s):
During Democrat control over the House of Representatives, they had already brought in Don Jr. Three times and we haven't even sent the first subpoena to Hunter Biden.

0 (12m 37s):
Okay? So again, the cynical reason here is that McCarthy is basically saying that, okay, and so now I'm doing it and I'm bringing in everybody. We're gonna do the subpoena power, we're gonna do all those sorts of things. Here's the reality. These sort of quixotic quests to get rid of Speaker McCarthy. I said this at the time, I don't understand what concession you're trying, Tory from him, if you can name me the concessions that you think are going to make governance in the house better and more conservative, I'm all for it. Chip Roy did, and we had Chip Roy on the program at the time when they were having the Speaker fight. And I said like, what do you want from McCarthy? And he listed a bunch of things. I said, and McCarthy gives you those things, will you support him? And he was like, yes, okay. That is a position that makes sense. You know, it's not a position that makes sense. I don't like Speaker McCarthy and he should go, and I have no alternatives. So I'm just going to yell about things like I, that's not a strategy and it's not a plan.

0 (13m 18s):
So what exactly is it that you are seeking to achieve at this point? So McCarthy is now opened, the Impeachment Inquiry, Senator Kevin Kramer of North Dakota called the Inquiry and appropriate step for the Republicans Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell. Senator McCarthy didn't need his advice on how to run the house, which is a good way for McConnell to avoid that fight. It doesn't matter what McConnell has to say anyway, since he's not the majority leader, so he has no power to actually preside over any sort of Senate process for full scale removal from office, even if Biden were to be impeached over these sorts of charges. Representative Ken Buck of Colorado, he had argued an Inquiry would be unnecessary 'cause of existing committee investigations. He said that McCarthy made a good decision to not hold the vote. He said it would've distracted from the work we're trying to get done, which would've been the attempt to fund the government.

0 (13m 59s):
So again, the powers that have been extended to the house are relatively minor here. All it really does is in very public terms, it says, we know that you're corrupt and we are going to come after you with whatever powers we have at our disposal. And that is not a bad thing. I think that is a very worthwhile thing for, as I said, two purposes. One is mutually assured destruction. If you guys keep impeaching Republican presidents like over and over and over just because you don't like them, well then we're going to do the same thing to your guys and we'll see how you like it. So mutually assured destruction is one way of getting everybody back down. And the second is that Joe Biden actually is deeply corrupt and has been deeply corrupt for decades. On end on just one second, we'll get to the Democratic response to the, to the Impeachment Inquiry.

BON CHARGE (14m 39s):
First, let's talk about Bon Charge. It's a holistic wellness brand with a huge range of evidence-based products to optimize your life in every way. They have all sorts of great stuff. Their extensive range of premium wellness products help you sleep, perform better, better recover fast, reduce inflammation, and so much more from blue light glasses. Red light therapy bone charge products help you naturally address the issues of modern day life effortlessly and with maximum impact. If you haven't already checked out the infrared Sauna Blanket from Bon Charge, you need to, I have one. It's awesome. It has all sorts of benefits. It works by using infrared light. It heats the body directly rather than the air around you, like a traditional Sauna, which means that you actually get the same benefits without feeling super uncomfortable 'cause it's at a lower heat. Sweating helps flush out the heavy metals and other toxins in the body. It raises your heart rate to that, a physical exercise, it burns calories while you relax, you burn up to 600 calories and just it's goes like going into the Sauna, except you don't actually have to go to the Sauna Bond charge Ships worldwide offers exceptional customer service, comes with a 12 month warranty. Head over to Bon Charge dot com slash Ben. Use code Ben to save at 15%. That's B O N C H A rge.com/ Ben. Use code Ben and save at 15% today.

3 (15m 44s):
Okay, so the next steps presumably are that a bevy of committees are going to open their own investigations At this point, the Republican House Oversight Committee is going to preside over all of this. Apparently McCarthy says that he's gonna have James Comer of Kentucky take the lead on the Impeachment Inquiry.

0 (16m 3s):
He's gonna work alongside Jim Jordan of Ohio and Jason Smith of Missouri. Again, it, it's, it didn't require a majority vote to do this. The fact that he didn't have a majority vote makes this a somewhat risky move because the question is gonna be whether you get enough Republicans to vote in the end to impeach Joe Biden on whatever they uncover. Nonetheless, Democrats are fighting mad about it. As you would imagine. Chuck Schumer, the Senate majority leader, he's now using language that we remember from, from the Trump days. Remember when, when Trump would say that it's that it's a witch hunt, witch hunt? Remember that in pretty much every tweet and it kind of was, well, now Chuck Schumer is adopting that language.

4 (16m 41s):
I think the Impeachment Inquiry is absurd. The American people want us to do something that will make their lives better, not go off on these chases and witch hunts.

0 (16m 53s):
Oh, and wa the i I noticed that you delegated tens of millions of dollars to chases and witch hunts when it was President Trump. Again, turnabout is fair play when it comes to politics. Senator Dick Durbin, I thought had sort of the quote of the day here. He said, you know, sure, I mean, his behavior's weird and kind of corrupt, but there's nothing here. I mean, come on.

5 (17m 14s):
I'm not saying that Hunter Biden broke the law or that there should be any punishment involved in it, but I don't feel good about the situation if it looks like a, a son or a daughter is capitalizing on the public achievement of their parents. Yes, that does raise some questions in my mind.

6 (17m 31s):
So fast forward on this, if this house Inquiry turns into a full blown Impeachment, and I have to say it's hard to imagine, it doesn't. I mean, they're not gonna do an Impeachment Inquiry and then clear President Biden, right? I mean, is the bottom line looking forward? There's no way Impeachment supporters are gonna get two thirds of the Senate, so Biden will be acquitted.

5 (17m 52s):
This is just a diversion on the part of McCarthy. He cannot govern, he cannot get his majority in the House of Representatives to do the basics, to keep the government's lights on. And so he is decided for a diversion. Let's talk about something else that they might agree on. An Impeachment, what a waste of time and money.

0 (18m 11s):
So I love that Dick Durbin's like, yeah, he might be super corrupt and it's, it's really ugly, but it's a waste of time and money. First of all, when have Democrats in legislatures ever cared about wasting time and money? Jerry Connolly, who's involved in the Impeachment of President Trump, I believe both times, Congressman from Virginia. He, he, he also says it's a distraction. It's a distraction from our vital work of, of wasting your money.

8 (18m 31s):
Right now we're in the distract phase, right? So yeah, flood the zone, as Charlie said to, so everyone gets impeached. It's a commonplace, but I think it's also to distract us from the fact that Donald Trump has been indicted four ti different times. There are 91 counts pending against him. He's at enormous legal peril and they don't want us to focus on that. So let's create a different headline and sure enough, that's the headline of today, isn't it?

0 (19m 2s):
I mean, that works in reverse as well. Is it possible that you guys have filed four different indictments against President Trump in the middle of an election season because you wished the headline would be that as opposed to Joe Biden being crappy at his job and also corrupt. John Federman has emerged from from Frankenstein's laboratory to, to he has a different look, John Federman. So it used to be that he was sort of a track suited narrow dwell, and now he apparently has graduated into a, into a low level muscle enforcer for the Sopranos. So here's John Fetterman's response while walking through the hallways of the, the congressional basement on his way to, to balance outside a bar where he explains how, how upset he is about this.

0 (19m 43s):
Impeachment

9 (19m 45s):
Ask you about this news that Speaker McCarthy has formally launched an Impeachment in or has said he's going to.

10 (19m 51s):
Oh my god, really? Oh my gosh. You know, oh, it's devastating it don't do it. Please don't do it up. Say tonight. Oh no. Oh no.

0 (20m 3s):
Similarly, his reaction to learning that Scooby-Doo had been moved in its time slot on Cartoon Network and there John Federman, your senator from Pennsylvania, well done America. You guys are doing an amazing, amazing job. So is there gonna be evidence to Impeach Joe Biden again? The answer is there's already evidence to Impeach Joe Biden. If you want to, we'll get to that momentarily

Helix (20m 25s):
First, everybody knows I love my Helix mattress, right? Again, I got home really late last night. We did a backstage in Nashville. I had to fly back to Florida, didn't get a lot of sleep last night. But the sleep that I did get is thanks to my Helix mattress. Well now they have a new high-end collection. Helix Elite Helix has harnessed years of extensive mattress expertise to bring their customers a truly elevated sleep experience. The Helix Elite Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for specific sleep positions and firmness preferences. I've had my Helix sleep mattress for, I don't know, seven, eight years at this point. It's great. My wife loves it as well. If you're nervous about buying a mattress online, you don't have to be. Helix has a sleep quiz. It matches your body type and sleep preferences to the perfect mattress because why would you buy a mattress made for somebody else? I took that Helix quiz, I was match with a firm but breathable mattress. Go to Helix sleep.com/men, take their two minute sleep quiz, find the perfect mattress for your body and sleep type. Your mattress will come directly to your door ship for free. Plus Helix has a 10 year warranty. You get to try it out for a hundred nights risk free. They'll even pick it up for you if you don't love it, but you will. Helix has over 12,005 star reviews their financing options. Flexible payment plans make it to a great night's sleep is never far away. In fact, Helix Labor Day Sale is still going on. They're offering 25% off all mattress orders plus two free pillows. For my listeners, it's a great deal. Go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. Use code Helix partner 25. This is their best offer, yet it's not gonna last long with Helix. Better sleep starts right now.

10 (21m 38s):
Okay, so the Republicans quite correctly are pointing out that when you guys keep, it's amazing the media coverage of this is like with no evidence at all. Republicans Open, Impeachment Inquiry. Now, as I say, the evidence is super long. I mean, there's a lot of evidence that Joe Biden not only knew, but was involved in Hunter Biden's business ranging from the texts from Hunter Biden to Chinese Magnates talking about 10% for the big guy to text directly to people he was working with, talking about how his father was sitting directly next to him and would make life for them incredibly uncomfortable.

0 (22m 10s):
This is a point made by a representative Scott Perry of Pennsylvania. He was asked about, well, do you guys even have evidence to do this? He's like, yes, I

12 (22m 18s):
What actual evidence do you have as opposed to allegations to show to the American public that would merit an actual Impeachment Inquiry of Joe Biden and prove that today isn't just about some of you.

13 (22m 29s):
Oh, I don't know,

12 (22m 31s):
Speaker McCarthy, for the sake of enacting political revenge,

13 (22m 35s):
This isn't about political revenge. We have the bank accounts. We can see, ma'am, you can see that the homes that the Bidens own can't be afforded on a, on a Congressional or Senate salary. You also understand that it's not normal for family members to receive millions of dollars from overseas interests. Those things aren't normal. That's not normal to have 20 cell shell country companies. These things are not normal and it alludes to not only just widespread corruption, but money laundering if not influence pedaling itself. And we also have the president on the vice president at the time on record saying that the prosecutor was fired. Well, son of a, the prosecutor was fired, right?

13 (23m 15s):
Because the prosecutor was going after the, the company that his son was working on. That's what we have. If you can't see that, if you are, if you are that blunt, look,

0 (23m 25s):
I mean he happens to be correct. Meanwhile Marjorie Taylor Greene correctly points out that it's not just that, it's also the possibility that Joe Biden's, D O j was shutting down investigations. I mean, we do already have whistleblowers who have said as much,

11 (23m 36s):
Much, I'm very excited to see it happen. I think Americans deserve truth. They deserve transparency and we need this investigation to go as long as it needs to, to uncover all the corruption that has been involved in covering up Joe Biden's crimes.

0 (23m 51s):
Okay? So again, not wrong on any of this. Now Democrats are already trying to spin this into, well, what about Jared and Ivanka and all, all the rest of that sort of thing. Okay, so first of all, Jared and Ivanka were actual employees of the federal government. Hunter was never an employee of the federal government while Joe Biden was vice president, hunter was just going around as a bagman for his family for mil to mil the tune of millions of dollars and calling his daddy in to meetings in order to demonstrate that he had flex with the federal government. That is not the same thing as you are a federal employee who's worked on things like the Abraham Accords, which by the way, the most successful Middle East Peace initiative of the last two generations, which is what Jared and Ivanka were doing during that time. And then after you leave office, then you end up doing a business deal that is publicly disclosed in all of its details publicly disclosed, right?

0 (24m 33s):
How do we know about Jared's investments with the Saudis and vice versa because it's all publicly disclosed as opposed to Hunter Biden who hid this crap for years, right? There's some pretty significant differences right here, obviously, but what we're gonna conflate all the things at the same time, of course, in the end, how much is the Impeachment stuff going to damage Joe Biden? It's only gonna damage Joe Biden if he just means there's additional attention brought to his corruption. So he could've done that theoretically without Impeachment. Will he be impeached? I don't know. I mean, you're gonna have to get four or five Republicans in purple districts on board in order to do that. But one thing is being underscored for Democrats and that is Joe Biden continues to be an extraordinarily weak candidate. The economy is not doing well under Joe Biden. It is just that simple.

0 (25m 14s):
According to Axios, a measure of poverty tracked by the census Bureau rose in 2022 as Covid era benefits expired and the average income fell according to a Tuesday airport. Child poverty saw a sharp increase in 2022 following a record low the year prior. Now, the reason saw a record low is because Joe Biden spent a bajillion dollars just pouring money on the raging flame of inflation and turning it into a huge gas fire that has engulfed the entire American economy. And then that wasn't renewed. And then he is like, well, you're increasing child poverty because we're not signing giant checks to people. Well, yeah, it turns out that when you sign enormous amounts of money over to people that temporarily relieves their poverty But, it does not permanently relieve their poverty. The only way to truly reduce child poverty in the long term in the United States is to have a growing economy where mom and dad are married and have jobs.

0 (25m 57s):
That is the, that is the way that you actually reduce child poverty long term, not by simply signing checks. Joe Biden, of course, is blaming his political opposition. But the reality is that the Democrats used Covid v I d as an excuse to blow money out the wazoo for three straight years. And that was not maintainable. As we can see from the inflation rate. As we can see from the stagnating economy, median household income fell by 2.3% from 2021 to 2022, adjusting for inflation income decreased in white and non-Hispanic white households. It remained similar in black, Asian, and Hispanic households. And inflation rose 7.8% in 2022 on, on an annualized basis.

0 (26m 38s):
By the way, we have new inflation stats out today and it turns out that the C P I, the Consumer price index climbed 3.7% in the year through August. That was faster than the 3%, 3.2% July rating and even faster than the 3.6% that economists had expected. So of course, they're blaming this on high gas prices, which means that Joe Biden is gonna try to cut some sort of sweetheart deal with the Saudis in order to get them to pump gas again so as to artificially boost his reelect chances. But these are bad numbers, okay? Remember, we're supposed to be seeking 2% the difference between 2% and 3.7%. We are almost double the expected inflation rate in this country right now. And even a lot of Democrats are starting to look cross-eyed at Joe Biden and say, I don't know why we are running this one.

0 (27m 19s):
Why? Now, the real reason they're running this one is because they're trying to prevent an internal firefight over Kamala Harris inside the Democratic Party. This is the problem when you pick an affirmative action candidate for vp as opposed to, you know, the best qualified candidate for like Joe Biden could have chosen anyone for VP Kamala Harris did not bring out the black vote. She did not bring out anyone. Kamala Harris is one of the most alienating politicians of our lifetime. If Joe Biden wanted to pick like a qualified vp, he had a bunch of people to choose from. I mean, even on that stage with him when he was running in 2020, there are a bunch of people he easily could have chosen as his VP candidate. Most obviously somebody like Amy Klobuchar from Minnesota. He did. He decided not to do that. Instead he went with Kamala Harris who's off-putting and widely despised. And so they're trying to prevent a firefight from breaking out inside the Democratic party over Kamala.

0 (28m 0s):
And so you gotta leave the old man in place, but Democrats are starting to say, yeah, but his poll numbers suck. So David Ignatius, Democrat writing for the Washington Post has an entire piece today titled President Biden should Not Run again in 2024. He says, what I admire most about President Biden is that a polarized nation. He has governed from the Center out, which of course is a joke. He's governed from the left, the hard left. But I don't think that Biden and Vice President Harris should run for reelection. I love that he's just sneaking in the Vice President Harris right there. The Vice President Harris, Kamala Harris, she's not 80. Kamala Harris is in the prime of her political life and they're already like, can we like dump her off the side of this ship like LeBron right now? We'll push the old man. And if she goes, that would also be great. I don't think Biden and Vice President Harris should run for reelection, says David Ignatius.

0 (28m 42s):
It's painful to say that given my admiration for much of what they've accomplished. But if he and Harris campaigned together in 2024, I think Biden risks undoing his greatest achievement, which was stopping Trump, Biden would carry two big liabilities into a 2024 campaign. He'd be 82 when he began a second term. That is liability number one. And liability number two is Harris. She has a 39.5% approval rating according to 5 38. Harris says, David Ignatius has many laudable qualities, but the simple facts that she has failed to gain traction in the country, or even within her own party, Biden could encourage a more open VP selection process that could produce a stronger running mate. And then I love this. He says we should start with the mayor of Los Angeles, Karen Bass. Look, look how, look how the, the intersectional democratic party.

0 (29m 22s):
They can't get rid of Kamala Harris 'cause they don't have a black woman to back her up. His first move is, what about Karen Bass, who barely beat Rick Caruso, who is a Republican in la or Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo. Yeah, there'd be a charmer. Gina Raimondo, the Commerce Secretary. That would, that would be amazing. Great job. But there, there's the desperation is starting to set in among the Democrats, which of course is why the Democratic party rigged the primaries in the first place. As R F K Jr is now pointing out in the Wall Street Journal, he says, it's become clear the D N C doesn't want a real primary and is willing to disenfranchise democratic voters from choosing their nominee. The D NNC has refused to host debates, though the vast majority of Democratic voters want and expect them so they can judge which candidate has the popular appeal and vigor to challenge the Republican nominee.

0 (30m 3s):
The D N C has revoked new Hampshire's century old status as first primary state, and they replaced it with South Carolina because Biden won South Carolina, but lost both New Hampshire and Iowa. The D NNC has drafted rules that if candidates run in unsanctioned primary New Hampshire, the D N C chairman has the power to punish them. Regardless of the margin of victory, such a candidate would receive zero delegates. Further, the Georgia Democratic Party has a rule allowing it to ban from the ballot. Any candidate who doesn't follow D NNC rules. So R F K Junior's pointing out, they already rigged this thing like Biden stepped in and he rigged this thing. So Democrats are stuck with Joe Biden, which is the reason, presumably why the Impeachment Inquiry is really bad for Joe Biden. Again, if you're talking about Joe Biden, that is a good thing for Republicans. And if you're talking about Donald Trump, that is a good thing for Democrats.

Bambee (30m 45s):
That is the simple, simple math. And in just one second, we're gonna get to Joe Biden's foibles overseas because we are seeing new information about the $6 billion. Gimme that Biden just signed over to the Iranians, which is the prelude to a broader Iran deal that presumably will give them much, much, much more access to cash so they can pursue their terroristic intent. First, when you're running a business, your employees can create all sorts of fascinating situations from remote employees and how to hire top talent to improving company culture. This is why you need to talk to Bambi. When you start a business, you don't think about hr, you don't think about HR right up until the point where you get sued for something and you didn't have proper HR policies, which is why you need to think about it. Like right now, while I'm talking about a Bambi gives you access to your own dedicated HR manager starting just 99 bucks per month. This person is available to you by phone, email, in real time chat. They'll help you run employee onboarding, terminations and performance reviews. With Bambi's HR Autopilot feature, you can automate important HR practices like setting policies, employee training, and feedback procedures. All of Bambi's HR managers are based in the United States and can support the nuances across all 50 states. HR managers can easily cost 80 grand per year. Bee starts at just 99 bucks per month. Schedule your free conversation today, see how much BAM bee can take off of your plate. Go to bam bee.com right now, type Ben Shapiro under podcast when you sign up so they know that we sent you. It's spelled bam b e e.com. Bam bee.com. Type in Ben Shapiro so that they know that we sent you and get started with your HR journey today.

Daily Wire (32m 10s):
Also, despite the lackluster economy, The Daily, Wire continues to thrive and grow. We are hiring right now, we're looking for a skilled social video coordinator to join our fast growing marketing team. As a social video coordinator, you will be responsible for identifying and posting video content on our branded YouTube Snapchat and TikTok accounts knowledge of our brand as well as exceptional grammar skills are essential in this role. No typos. The position is based in Nashville, Tennessee. If you have experience in social media marketing or content coordination, we'd love to hear from you. If you're interested in joining our team, visit Daily Wire dot com slash careers. That's Daily Wire dot com slash careers today

11 (32m 42s):
. Okay, Meanwhile, the Democratic Administration in the White House, they continue to make nice with the Iranians. So the, the Democrats have decided in the White House that it would be good to hand the Iranians apparently on the anniversary of nine 11, $6 billion in some sort of hostage exchange.

0 (32m 58s):
But the reality is that the, the thing that's happening right here is an open invite to the Iranians to make some sort of deal that looks like the Iran nuclear deal, that Iran nuclear deal fell apart because the Iranians were breaking the nuclear deal. And Donald Trump was like, I'm not interested in doing this, this nonsense. And so he pulled it out of it. Joe Biden has been laser focused on trying to put that back together, even including in the negotiations. People like Robert Malley, who was originally an Obama envoy, Robert Malley, ended up being basically banned from the State Department. He was leading the diplomatic effort on around his nuclear program. And then Congress learned that the State Department had suspended his security clearance because of an investigation into possible mishandling of classified information, which actually elevated to the F B I level.

0 (33m 42s):
And so, n not a great shock there that Robert Malley is, is not a particularly good guy. He was the one who was leading up the negotiations with Iran. So caught what their hand in the cookie jar, you know, giving Iran pallets of cash just like Barack Obama did. Now, the, the Obama, and now the White House is claiming that actually none of this happened. It's all in your imagination. Here's the State Department spokesperson yesterday, Matthew Miller, explaining that no one actually gave Iran money. It was their money. No one gave them a dollar.

14 (34m 8s):
That somehow these restrictions impact fungibility of these funds.

15 (34m 14s):
No, I I, I, I don't, I don't. Wait, I don't know what you say. Say that, say that again. That,

14 (34m 19s):
So if I,

15 (34m 20s):
I, I, they,

14 (34m 21s):
I have $1 and

15 (34m 23s):
To you

14 (34m 24s):
And that, that means that you have another, what I'm a dollar that you have in your wallet you can use to spend on anything you want. And you don't have to worry about the, the dollar that I gave you. Right?

15 (34m 34s):
So where that analogy breaks down, no one has given Iran a dollar here. These are Iran's funds.

0 (34m 40s):
These are Iran's funds. When, when I, that's ridiculous. I think the police seizes a drug dealer's funds and then in a sweetheart deal they released the drug dealer's funds. Did they give the drug dealer money? Well, I mean, yeah, I guess you could say that it was the drug dealer's money, but he's a criminal, so it's not his money. That's the whole point. That's ridiculous. And then this is even better. The Iranian president yesterday, he, he goes on with, with I believe Lester Holt, and he's explaining that actually they're just gonna use the money for whatever they want. thisI. He, we've been told that this money is not going to be used for terrorism or anything that would threaten American interest. It's just gonna be used for like food and like bandaids and stuff. Andi's like, no, I'm gonna use it for whatever I want.

0 (35m 22s):
Actually,

14 (35m 22s):
What

16 (35m 22s):
Is your expectation of its use? We're told that it's for humanitarian purposes, food and medicine. Do you believe you have the right to use that money in any way that you see fit

18 (35m 36s):
This money blinds to the Islamic Republic of Iran? And naturally we will decide the Islamic Republic of Iran will decide to, to expend it wherever we need it, how to spend our money. Of course, it is under the authority of the Islamic Republic of Iran.

0 (35m 57s):
So yeah, we're just gonna use it for like, whatever we please is what II says. My favorite part of this is where John Kirby's like, no, it's not true. They can't, they're wrong. I don't believe you. I don't believe you. John Kirby.

19 (36m 10s):
Yeah, John Kirby, I wanna get your reaction. The administration's reaction to President Raisi saying that the Iranians will spend the $6 billion quote wherever we need it.

20 (36m 21s):
No, that's not true. The system is set up such that this money, these funds can only be parceled out for humanitarian purposes. Food, medicine, you know, construction of medical facilities or even educational purposes, but that each and every withdrawal is gonna go through a series of checks and balances, checks by the Treasury Department, checks by the Qatari National Bank.

0 (36m 47s):
Oh, the, the Qatari National Bank. Yes. Very trustworthy. That that's gonna be the, and, and then once it's actually in the Iranian pocket, they're not going. It's so ridiculous. But this administration is ridiculous. Well, one, one of the key ways that you know, that the left has wrong footed is when they just start lying about what it is they're doing. Right? You point out they're doing it and they're like, no, we're not doing that. Then you're like, no, you, you actually are like, yes, of course we are. But it's not bad that we're doing it. Which of course also applies to what they have been attempting to do in America's public schools. So the entire fight that is now happening across the country, over removing wildly inappropriate material from school libraries, books like gender queer, which are basically just pornography, removing these from school libraries, Democrats have been saying this is a form of censorship.

0 (37m 30s):
Well, this turned into a very weird hearing yesterday when Senator John Kennedy of Louisiana, he was like, listen, bunch of adults in this room, I'm gonna read into the congressional record, one of these books that you suggest must be in a school library, and let's see if you get uncomfortable, because if you're uncomfortable, then maybe it shouldn't be in a school library where seventh graders can read it.

21 (37m 49s):
The first one is called All Boys Aren't Blue. And I will quote from it. I put some lube on and got him on his dss, and I began to slide into him from behind. I pulled out of him and kissed him while he masturbated. He asked me to turn over while he slipped a condom on himself. This was my, and I was struggling to imagine someone inside me.

0 (38m 29s):
Hmm hmm. So the entire media was like, what a weirdo. Why would John Kennedy read that outlet? Well, if you're, if you think that's weird, then an adult is, is reading that. Why do you want a sixth or seventh grader to read that? I noticed that it is you who are promoting this material, and when John Kennedy says the thing out loud, then you get all uptight. What he some sort of prude the hell is wrong with these people. Honest to God, my favorite part of this was Dick Durbin, senator from Illinois suggesting that nobody's advocating for sexual material to be available to elementary school kids. Right? I mean, technically you want it to be available in fifth grade, not fourth grade, like middle school is what you're saying.

5 (39m 6s):
No one is advocating for sexually explicit content to be available in an elementary school library or a children's section of a library. That's a distraction from the real challenge.

0 (39m 18s):
Well, it's a distraction from the real challenge. Then I have a question, why should that even be available in a school library for high schoolers? Why should taxpayers be funding that sort of crap if a local school district decides they don't want that there? What business is it of Dick Durbin to decide that it must be there? What is it, what is the reason why that must be? Is that a piece of great literature that is required for you to pass your English comp class? I, I think, I think not. But again, they have to deny they're doing the thing that they're doing. No, we're not doing it. But it's good that we are sent, seems seems to be the argument at, at all times from this group. Okay. Meanwhile on the Republican side of the aisle. Some movement in the polls in Iowa, you know, the, the front runner in the Republican party remains by leaps and bounds Donald Trump.

0 (39m 58s):
But he has seen a significant drop in the Iowa Republican caucus. According to Emerson College, just a few months ago, he was at well over 60% in that poll. In that Emerson College poll, he's down to 49%, which is a drop of 13%. Meanwhile Governor Ron DeSantis and Mike Pence's numbers also dropped from May DeSantis. Numbers were at 20% in May. They're down to 14 pence decreased from 5% to 3%. You've seen some gains for Tim Scott and Nikki Haley and Vivek Ramis Swami, all of them still running well behind Donald Trump. Obviously Ron DeSantis, who remains the national, the National Second Place, kind of runner up right now by all available poll metrics. He appeared with Nora O'Donnell last night and he was talking about the age of presidential candidates.

0 (40m 41s):
Obviously this doesn't just apply to Joe Biden, it obviously also applies to Donald. Trump

22 (40m 46s):
Age has become an issue in this presidential contest. Should voters worry about the ages of President Biden and former President Donald Trump? I

23 (40m 54s):
Think that's absolutely legitimate concern. The presidency's not a job for someone that's 80 years old and there's nothing you know wrong with being 80. Obviously I'm the governor of Florida, I know a lot of people who are elderly. They're great people. But you're talking about a job where you need to give it a hundred percent. You need, we need an energetic president. And I think that if, if the founders could, could kind of look at this again, I do think they probably would've put an age limit on some of these offices,

0 (41m 20s):
Okay? That, that all may very well be true. Here's the reality inside the Republican party. There's only one way that someone is going to beat Donald Trump, okay? And they're gonna have to make the following case Donald Trump lost in 2020, and I will not. That is the only case that you can make. That is the only case that can be made. It's not gonna be about age, it's not gonna be about temperament because Republicans very much kind of like Donald Trump's combative temperament and some of the wild stuff on true social, they don't mind it. In fact, they kind of enjoy it. They think it's fun. It's not gonna be done on the basis of record because most Republicans think that Donald Trump's record, the first three years of his presidency was good, even if he didn't really know what he was doing with the bureaucracy. And in fact, they actually chalk up to his benefit side, the fact that he didn't know what was going on with the bureaucracy because then they say that bureaucracy tried to thwart him and look at all the things that he got done in the face of that bureaucracy.

0 (42m 5s):
He'll definitely do it better next time. The only way any Republican is going to beat Donald Trump in the Republican primaries is by making a very simple case you lost in 2020 to a dead man. You are going to lose again in 2024 to a dead man. You are going to spend the entire year locked up in court. You're going to be whining on truth social. You're not gonna spend a dollar on actual electioneering. You're not gonna spend five minutes outside of Mar-a-Lago or off of truth social. And those are all obstacles to you winning the presidency. Somebody is gonna have to make that case. The problem is, I think all the Republicans in the race are afraid to make that case because they're afraid that if they say that Trump lost in 2020, their entire audience is gonna disappear. But here's the thing. If Donald Trump won in 2020, of course we should nominate him in 2024. Either won or he lost, right? There's no third possibility. So if he lost in 2020, we should probably run somebody else he lost.

0 (42m 48s):
And if he won in 2020, we should for sure run him because he will win again, right? This is the entire debate. And if no Republican is willing to say the obvious, which is Trump lost in 2020. 'cause if he didn't, he'd be in the White House right now, not signing crappy Iran deals. Well then who the hell's gonna overtake him in a primary Meanwhile? I have learned, according to reports from my producers, that something called the Video Music Awards happened last night. The VMAs, this MTV's v VMAs and it starred such vaunted names as Diddy and Shakira. So apparently we have time travel back to my high school days, which is exciting news. The VMAs haven't really been super duper relevant for a long time, but every so often they just try another shock tactic. So it, according to my reporters on the ground, savvy was responsible for this segment.

0 (43m 33s):
I've been told that basically it was pretty blase. It had the usual heaping helping of quasi nudity and, and all the rest. This was led off by a brand new song from those artists of the spoken word, the Shakespeares of our time, Megan the stallion, t h e, because you are the stallion, Megan the Stallion, and Cardi B ah, two of the great artist. And in the pantheon of the cannon, it's gonna go like Beethoven, Brahms, Gershwin, John Cage, Cardi B. That's how, that's how it's gonna go. It's gonna be amazing. So they have a new song.

0 (44m 14s):
Their their, their prior hit was of course Wap, which which I did a better version of than they did. And their new song is called Bongos. So they've just moved around to the back. So Wap was of course about the female genitalia and bongos is about the booty. So taking a, taking a page from sexy red. Now they, to be fair, my understanding is that bongos doesn't directly talk about the anus in the same way that sexy red does, which is of benefit to us all. But bongos is about the, the butt cheeks apparently. So we, we have, we are, we are a, we are a nation with deep spiritual value and connection to undying beauty.

0 (44m 56s):
That that is what we are. So their new song Bongos, they did a, they did a ver version of it at the, at the VMAs. I, I feel like I can predict where they're going next, right? There are only a few other body parts that, so I, I assume that next is gonna be the boobs song, right? Right. They did wop and they did bongos. They have to move to the boobs, I assume next. So here, here they, here they were last night. These, these geniuses of creative enterprise

24 (45m 26s):
Getting money. Y'all be broke.

0 (45m 33s):
Wait, is Megan the Stallion? A little person that's a massive height differential. So they're twerking and shaking their, their bongos, as you might imagine, if you, if you are privileged enough not to have to watch this. And then there's Taylor pretending that she likes the song. Megan is enormous. Megan, Megan, Megan, Megan plays power Forward for the LA Lakers That, okay? And so it's just a lot of twerking. Wow. This is, this is what a display, what what incredible display of athleticism and, and female class. This is what women fought for generations to gain access to this is, this is women for generations felt as though they were living as, as, as though they were under the heel of the patriarchal society.

0 (46m 23s):
And finally they've achieved the liberty to be actual quasi prostitutes on screen, which is something they never had before, except for literally all of human history to, you know, shake their bongos for money that never have women achieve this sort of, this sort. I mean, except for like in all societies, but, but except for that true feminism at work, again, I'm just like, this is how dumb this stuff has become. We are now they're, they've basically decided that they're going to do the sexual version of head, shoulders, knees, and toes. It's like, you know, the song that you sang with like your small kids, like head, shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes now. But, but it's like with bodily orifices, right?

0 (47m 3s):
So it's, it's like ears, nostrils, mouth and wap. Like they, they're running out of body parts. And so there, there will come a point where they run out of body cavities and they have to start going to actual internal organs. It's a thing that they're going to end up with, right? They're running outta body cavities to rest in. So now they're gonna wrap out your small intestine. That's right. That's the way this is gonna go. They're having trouble defining exactly what hot is. I assume they're gonna write a song next about their epiglottis. This is, this is where we're going. Okay folks, we're gonna get to songs about the spleen. I'm personally very much looking forward to a song about the liver. I, I think that the processing of bile requires some sort of, of extended meditation from Cardi B and Meghan, the stallion.

0 (47m 50s):
So our culture is, is in the best of hands. Meanwhile Taylor Swift won Best Pop award because, you know, it's a year and, and this is what happens every year. And she's very grateful to all of her songwriters, all 9,000 of them. Every Taylor Swift. Remember that time when Taylor Swift was a songwriter? Remember that? And she wrote her own songs and her own lyrics, and now she has a team of minions, maybe in India writing songs for her. And then she has another team of minions maybe in in China auto tuning it for her. Te Taylor Swift may be our first musical ai. I think it's possible. Anyway, here is Taylor Swift, overjoyed at winning, yet another V M A, which will immediately go into her garage.

26 (48m 34s):
I'm

0 (48m 35s):
So

26 (48m 35s):
Exciting. I'm not doing well. Pivoting from this to this. Like I had, I had your dolls. I like marionettes marionette. What? Like, are you doing something? What's gonna happen now? What are you, there's something they're going to, they're gonna do something and I need to know what it is. You guys are your, your pop personified. So to to, to receive this from your golden

0 (49m 1s):
'cause the instinct is getting her an award

26 (49m 5s):
That's really,

0 (49m 6s):
Our country is so old. It's, it's too much. The pop stars are now my age. Like that's a, I'm 39. I I, they're having to do like callbacks to nsync. That's, that's not strong stuff. Meanwhile, Doja cat, who I have been reliably informed, is named after a strain of marijuana in her cat. I'm not kidding you, that's a real thing. Doja cat showed up naked. So that's, that was exciting for, for everyone. I feel like she has something in her teeth in this picture. Is that because there's a watermark on it or is that just something in her teeth? Oh, fashion is like having stuff in your teeth now. Like she went too hard on at, at the, at the open, at the open salad bar and got some kale going on over there.

0 (49m 50s):
In any case, she showed up with nothing upon her, her Bon. Well, those aren't her bongos. Those are, those are her. What, what would be the appropriate term? I don't know. I I don't need your suggestion, Zach. That was not an open invitation for, for euphemistic terminology. And, and then she, she did a performance in which women, Dan str again, we, we've now reached the, the openly boring satanic. There used to be a, see, here's the thing I I said about Burning Man too. When the counterculture becomes the culture, transgressive stuff is actually incredibly boring. In order for you to transgress against a thing, the thing has to have some sort of cultural cachet or power. So if somebody walks around at doing like the Madonna routine, like the stripper saint routine that she did in the early eighties, it has no cultural penetration at all because it's because the church has no power in American society anymore, unfortunately.

0 (50m 41s):
So the same thing is happening here now, right? If you go back to the nineties, then Satanic imagery used to really shock people. Why? Because we didn't like Satan. Satan was bad, right? We all knew that satanic imagery was like a bad thing. Now because we have basically flattened out all moral ground in the United States, and we are supposed to attain our, our great moral attainment will be moral apathy. Think more apathetic. You are about everybody else's morality. The better a person you are, it used to be that if you cared about morality and you cared about people seeking a higher good or a higher life, this is what made you moral. Now, if you actually care about this stuff, it makes you immoral. So it's not transgressive to have strippers dancing around in Satanic gear. It's actually just them representing the regime. So here was a Doja cat again, a, a woman named after marijuana and her cat, which as we say, I mean, it's, it's like I, I I I I hesitate to even, to even compare her to poets of the past.

0 (51m 36s):
Shelly Keats, Doja Cat. Here we go.

27 (51m 45s):
I said what? I said,

0 (51m 46s):
Oh look, naked people in blood. Wow, that's,

27 (51m 51s):
I don't, the town red.

0 (51m 54s):
This is called paint the town red with blood, apparently

27 (51m 60s):
Head.

0 (51m 60s):
Do people like this? I just, I I wanna know if like, people actually like this, and if so, why? Where they drop it on their head as children Who's sitting around like, Ugh, and here's Taytay again pretending that she likes this song. And then, and then you have these creepy children of the corn who have arrived just in time from like the latest horror movie to to, to be bloodied up strippers, by the way, like if, can I just say that? If this is anyone's fantasy, you need to see a psychiatrist immediately. Ah, ay, yay. So again, I keep coming back to it. Our culture's in the best of hands. We're, we're all in great shape over here. It's all going amazing.

0 (52m 40s):
Alright guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be joined on the line by Joel Berry of the Babylon Be. If you're not a member, become member. Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.