ExpressVPN (0s):
The Bench Bureau Show, sponsored by Express VPN. Privacy is a right, not a privilege. Defend your rights at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben

0 (6s):
Why precisely. is there a Caucus in the United States Congress that openly sympathizes and lies on behalf of a Jew hating genocidal terrorist group? That's the question that should be on the lips of every American today. After watching Rashida to leave the elected congresswoman from Michigan lead an insurrectionist protest into a Congress building in solidarity with Hamas Tali dispensed her entire political career hating Jews She has routinely equated Jews defending themselves from Hamas terrorism with Hamas terrorism. She routinely denounces Israel as an apartheid state, but has never found it in her heart to condemn either Hamas or Hezbollah According to the Washington Free. Beacon Taleb has ties to a pro Palestine activist who praise Hezbollah for attacking quote Israel Taleb has met repeatedly with a Michigan based newspaper publisher who claims Hezbollah has made Lebanon safer.

0 (51s):
Two of Taleb's campaign bundlers have pushed anti-Israel and pro terrorist views. Another Taleb Ally Salazar Sour has been accused of financing Hamas through front groups. In the 1990s, according to FBI documents, Sarwar an official at the Islamic Society of Milwaukee organized fundraisers for Lieb in both 2018 and 2020. Abbas Hamide, a Palestinian activist who cheered the quote, Hezbollah slaughtered reel, attended T'S 2019 swearing in, in short, it is no mystery where Rashida Taleb stands. She stands with Hamas and other genocidal anti-Jewish terror groups. She made that even clearer this week when she issued no denunciation of Hamas, specifically for their massacre of 1500 Jews instead, blaming their anti-Jewish pogrom on American funding of Israel's quote unquote apartheid government.

0 (1m 34s):
And then yesterday to lead promoted a blood libel. As we talked about on yesterday's show on Tuesday, a failed Palestinian Islamic Jihad rocket landed in a parking lot next to a hospital. Hamas promptly lied and blamed the Israelis and claimed 500 dead. The claim was quickly debunked by radar data, video data, and audio data didn't matter. The entire media ran with it. But here is what Rashida Taleb said yesterday after the debunking at a pro, Kamas rally at the Capitol

2 (2m 1s):
Continue to watch people think it's okay to bomb a hospital where children You know what's so hard sometimes is watching those videos and, and the people telling the kids don't cry and like let them cry and they're shaking. And somebody You know this. They keep telling them not to cry in Arabic. They, they can cry. I can cry. We all could cry if we're not crying. Something is wrong.

1 (2m 36s):
I mean, I think the White House and everyone thinks that we're just gonna sit back and let this just continue to happen. No, the fact of the matter is our lives are not safe with you or the forever President. When are we gonna feel safe? When are we gonna stop funding continued, literally oppression of indigenous communities? When are we gonna enough?

0 (3m 1s):
So all of that was a lie, but not a shocking lie because Taleb supports terrorists. She has done so consistently throughout her career. She openly calls for the eradication of the Jewish state supporting instead what she calls a secular one state outcome, which would of course devolve into an Islamic state. She has never at any point expressed to any discontent about the presence of some 55 Islamic states on the planet. Of course, and yet the media have treated Taleb as a great light bringer. The New York Times magazine ran a glowing piece about Taleb in 2022 explaining in breathless terms, quote, she changed the Israeli Palestinian debating Congress by reminding her colleagues of the human stakes, it's a burden she would rather not carry. Taleb isn't the only member of The Hamas Caucus. Of course, Ilhan Omar is a founding member like Taleb. She parrots Kamas talking points down to the lie that Israel bombed the hospital she liked.

0 (3m 44s):
Taleb is a supporter of the so-called boycott deest sanctions movement that seeks the extermination of the state of Israel. She believes that Israel quote hypnotized the world. She blames Republicans support for Israel on the Benjamins parroting the notion that Jews pay off Congress people to support Israel. She compared Israel Hamas and the Taliban to one another, and yet Democrats continue to avoid directly condemning either Taleb or Omar. Meanwhile, other adjunct members of The Hamas Caucus continue to gain credibility in democratic circles. In June of this year, nine Democrats, including the venerable Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez, voted against a resolution in Congress declaring that Israel is not a racist or apartheid state, and stating that the United States will always be a staunch partner in supporter of Israel. The eight other Democrats include Jamal Bowman, summer Lieb, Cory Bush, Andre Carson, Delio Ramirez, Ayanna Pressley, and Pramila Jayapal.

0 (4m 31s):
A O C of course wept openly on the floor of the house when the house passed funding to re-arm Israel's defensive Iron Dome. That's right. She cried in front of the cameras because Israel was being given funding for defensive weaponry to shoot down rockets aimed at Jewish civilian areas. So why does the Democratic Party have such a tough time dissociating from its terror supporting members? Why do they suddenly suffer from acute amnesia when asked to even condemn their comments? The answer is obvious. Too many Democrats have invested too much in a political strategy that is deeply dependent on a single lie, that there is an intersectional coalition of the oppressed that must be united in order to tear down the root institutions of a corrupt western society. In this view, b l m is the same as Kamas is the same as the Democratic socialist of America is the same as the radical lfVtwK plus minus divided by sign movement.

0 (5m 17s):
All are necessary cogs in a machine designed to wreck the West. In the name of the so-called marginalized, a machine designed to tear down the supposed hierarchy dominated by white male Christians. Now, for a long time, many In, the liberal Jewish community, thought they could be part of this club. After all haven't Jews been historically victimized. Aren't they a minority? Now? They were wrong. Of course, it turns out that the Jews are too white and too disproportionately successful for the liking of the intersectional coalition in this view, as Whoopi Goldberg once said, even the Holocaust was merely white on white crime. And when Kamas terrorists murdered Jewish babies, well, that's just decolonization. The Democratic party can't throw out the Kamas Caucus without also recognizing the failure of its new core ideology.

0 (5m 57s):
If it turns out that disproportionate poverty and failure among certain groups is not the result of Western civilization itself, or some evil white hierarchy, that Hamas can be brown and poor and also evil, and that their evil is not the result of supposed Jewish colonization or exploitation, well that would undermine the entire coalitional strategy, and that can't be allowed. Now, the Democratic Party does have another road. They could simply make the case for left-wing policies on their own merits on the basis of redistributive fairness or efficiency, but they probably won't. They've staked it too much in their intersectional future to toss out the terrorist supporters, and so they will likely continue to promote the Kamas Caucus and Jew hatred will grow and the collapse of the West will accelerate.

0 (6m 38s):
And second, we'll show you the insurrectionist activity at a capitol building that will probably not result in long prison sentences for protesters, because of course they're left wing pro kamas activists. We'll get to that momentarily first

Birch Gold Group (6m 49s):
last month, the G 20 denounces a plan to impose digital currencies and digital IDs on their respective populations. The G 20, the group of 2010 International Forum for governments and Central Bank governors. It was established in response to the financial crises of the late 1990s with the aim of promoting international financial stability. Central Bank digital currencies allow the government to track every purchase you make that could even give officials the ability to prohibit you from purchasing certain items or freeze your account altogether. There's reason to be concerned about that. If you haven't yet, you need to call Birch Gold today. Talk to an expert about preserving your savings in a tax shelter retirement account. I've been a customer of Birch Gold Group for years. They make it really easy to convert your savings into precious metal. So if you have an I R A or 4 0 1 K from a previous employer that's just gathering dust, call up Birch Gold, they'll help you convert it into an I R A in gold. You're not gonna pay a penny out of pocket. Listen, diversification is just a smart strategy with your money. Text Ben 2 98. 98 98 Birch Gold will send you a free infokit on gold. If digital currency becomes a reality, you'll be glad you have something physical to fall back upon. Text Ben to 98, 98 98. Claim your free infokit on gold today.

0 (7m 49s):
Okay, so yesterday after Rashida Taleb ginned up a bunch of pro Hamas supporters doubling down again on that Gaza Hospital lie, and that that is a total lie. Hamas lied purposefully, deliberately. We don't know how many are dead from a rocket that hit a parking lot. It certainly is not 500. We, we certainly know who fired the rocket according to both American intelligence and Israeli intelligence and radar data and audio data and visual data. We know exactly what happened here. Rashida Tali went and she lied to an entire crowd, and then that crowd proceeded to essentially overrun the Canon office building that is a house office building that is located just a few yards from the Capitol building lib for her part.

0 (8m 32s):
She wasn't answering any questions. She ran away from reporters when she was confronted about the fact that she was lying openly about the bombing of the hospital. She, she just ran away because that is what she does because she is a, like, like most terrorists, she's an actual coward. Well, the Promo protesters mobbed at the capitol. Here is some of the footage of the protesters mobbing at the capitol. Again, it's all good peaceful rioting when it's, when it's people of the left, when it's people supporting terrorist groups that are occupying government buildings, that's okay. That's the way this works. If you're a January 6th rioter or you're just an old grandmother who wanders into the Capitol building under the weird misimpression that you were allowed to be in there on January 6th, you might get a few years in prison. However, if you deliberately storm a Capitol office building, which is illegal, and then you occupy it, then that apparently is totally fine, kind of fine.

0 (9m 21s):
I'm, I'm eager to see how Attorney General Merrit Garland decides to deal with the hundreds of people who are actually arrested because of this particular event. So look at the size of this crowd. Here's a giant crowd of terrorists and their fellow travelers and useful idiots marching toward the Capitol office building, the Canon House office building. That is a big crowd of people who really like terrorists right here, In, the United States, always very encouraging. Again, none of those people will actually condemn a Hamas. None of them, in fact, they have posters reading Decolonize. What do you think Decolonize means? Have they been shy about this? Decolonize means kill the Jews. That's what it means. They've been absolutely clear about this.

0 (10m 1s):
What Hamas did, according to this crowd, is they began the process of decolonization by wiping out Jewish babies in small villages. That's what they did. By, by by literally, I've seen the photograph and video evidence some more of it yesterday. Not gonna show it to you today, but it is there. Certainly you can find it online of them pulling bodies out of wreckage that have been tied together with bailing Wire and then and then murdered. So yeah, that, that's decolonization though. And there's lots of this sort of footage of these, these evil protesters who have decided to take over the, the Cannon H House office building here is some of them. What happened when they, when they went into the office building again, you're, you're supposed to go through like metal detectors and actually, but, but apparently it's totally fine to just occupy buildings.

0 (10m 42s):
Now, again, when you're a Democrat, you can get away with anything or when you're a Democrat associate. So they, they, they got a bunch of useful idiot quasi Jews. When I say quasi Jews, I mean these people may be ethnically Jewish, but they have about as much Association with Judaism as, as Hams sandwich does. And my my favorite part of the videos of the, of the not in r name, pseudo Jews who are, who are joining this particular movement. I do love it when there's video of people who are supposed to be looking Jewish and then they just completely mis wear the garb. It's one of my favorite things. So a lot of them are wearing what are called alium, right? The Tali, you've seen pictures of Orthodox Jews and they're wearing what looks like a prayer shawl, right? It's a prayer shawl.

0 (11m 22s):
These morons wear like a kente cloth because they've no idea what they're doing. No shock there. They're useful idiots on behalf of terrorists. So this is the least of their problem. So the Kama protesters took over the Cannon House office building arrests were made. I will say I do take a a, a bit of glee In the way these arrests go down, mainly because if you're going to go into a criminal thing and then you get arrested, and then this is your reaction, yeah, you're a real tough guy until the moment you get arrested. This particular protester getting arrested for occupying a a house office building seems to have eaten a raw jalapeno at the same time that he was arrested.

0 (12m 8s):
Yeah, that's tough stuff there. And there are these morons shouting at people, not in our name, no. Who's asking for anything to be done in your name? Free. Free

3 (12m 17s):
Palestine. Free free Palestine.

0 (12m 19s):
Again, what they mean by free, free Palestine is not free. The Gaza strip of Kamas, they do not mean free parts of the West Bank of Palestinian Authority or Islamic Jihad or even created Palestinian state. They mean free Tel Aviv, by which they mean destroy. Look at that Jews for the abolition of Israel. I mean, are they, are they like, they're not hiding the ball? This is the part that drives me absolutely up a wall, the unbelievable gaslighting where people keep saying over and over and over, out loud exactly what they want. And then the entire Western media plus the Biden administration. That's totally not what they want. No, no, no. There are no Hamas supporters. In the Gaza Strip, none. They don't exist. They're all wonderful westerners who've just been dominated by a small group of evil terrorists. Which is weird because that's absolutely not what's happening. And these protesters, they're, they're not in favor of Hamas guys.

0 (13m 2s):
They're just in favor of a Palestinian state. Sure, they say they wanna completely destroy Israel, and sure, not a single one of them will go on camera condemning Hamas for, for its attacks or as an organization. But You know what they really want, what they really want, and the projection of your own thoughts and wishes into people who, who believe truly evil things continues to be a source of amazement to me. So Pearl Hamas protestors also tried to climb barriers outside the White House. So that was exciting. Yesterday.

3 (13m 31s):
He's fired. Now he's fired. Now he's fired now

0 (13m 39s):
Here they go. They're trying to climb the fence.

3 (13m 42s):
Little

0 (13m 42s):
Insurrection happening right there. I I don't know what they think they're going to do once they get over that fence other than go to jail. But Gen Genius level stuff from our pro kamas crowd here, In, the United States pro Kamas protestors also invaded a senate hearing. There's a senate hearing going on. They decided to go to the Senate building and disturb the Senate hearing. So that would be illegal, right? That is disturbing the functional workings of government. I was told by all the right people that on January 6th, this was a crime against humanity and a threat to the Republic. But You know it's totally fine again when, when members of the left do this sort of stuff, totally fine.

3 (14m 24s):
Senators 800 International.

0 (14m 27s):
So this is a lady yelling In the back. There's just footage of the Senators looking on like, who's this crazy lady and how can we arrest her? According to N B C Washington, hundreds of people who entered a US House office building Wednesday afternoon have been arrested after demonstrating to demand AC cease fire In, the Israel Kamas war. That makes it sound a lot less egregious than it was. Again, that is illegal. You're not allowed to do that. Also, when you demand a ceasefire between a terrorist group that is currently holding currently not like before, holding right now 200 hostages, including a dozen Americans, you're pro kamas. No other way to put it. That's what you are. We'll get to more on this in just one second. First,

Policy Genius (15m 3s):
Policygenius makes it easy to compare life insurance quotes from top companies and find your lowest price. It's really, really important stuff. If you have a family dependent on you, you need life insurance. I have lots of life insurance on me. That is something that makes me feel a certain level of safety and comfort my family as well. You should do the same thing. Policygenius does better than anyone. Their licensed agents work for you, not the insurance companies. That means they don't have an incentive to recommend one insurer over another. So. you can trust their guidance. They're no added fees. Your personal information is kept private. It's super satisfying to check that life insurance off your to-do list. So, you can do that today. Life insurance through your workplace may not offer enough protection for your family's needs. It's not gonna follow you if you leave your job. Since life insurance typically gets more expensive as we age, now would be the time to buy Policy. Genius makes that policy so much easier. With Policy Genius, you can find life insurance policy starting just 292 bucks per year for a million dollars in coverage. Some options offer same day approval and avoid those unnecessary medical exams. Your loved ones deserve that financial safety net and you deserve a smarter way to find and buy it. So head over to Policygenius dot com slash Shapiro or click the link, In the description, Get your free life insurance quote quotes, see how much you could save. That's Policy Genius dot com slash Shapiro.

0 (16m 6s):
So again, according to N B C Washington, a US Capitol police spokesperson said that officials believe everyone went through security and entered the Cannon House Building according to guidelines. But those who enter are supposed to not stay inside the congressional buildings like you're supposed to be there for a reason. Protesters, including rabbis, I love this whenever they say, including rabbis, I say, okay, where's your Sika from? Seriously, I'm gonna play my Jew card here. Y no, no, I don't. I don't believe your credentials. Your credentials are garbage. You got them from the bottom of a cracker jack box. They demonstrated from the main floor and from several balconies, singing, praying, holding signs and banners, enchanting ceasefire. Now close to 300 people were in custody more than three hours after the rally inside the congressional office building began.

0 (16m 49s):
Three have been charged with assault on a police officer during processing according to the police. So this seems like You know if, if the rules apply for the goose, they apply for the gunner. I expect that some of these people will be held in solitary confinement and then I expect that some of them will go to jail for prolonged periods of time. After all. We are told that these are threats to the republic, so why not? So here's, here's a question. Where are the Democrats blasting The? Hamas Caucus. Seriously, why is Rashida Tlaib still in Congress? She can be expelled. It seems to me that's supporting terrorists. It's a pretty good reason to expel a member of Congress. It seems like a fairly obvious one. Why exactly should you be allowed to sit In the halls of Congress if you support a terrorist group, Hamas or Hezbollah as Rashida Taleb. So obviously does.

0 (17m 30s):
Where is the Democratic Party in all of this? Where are all the top level Democrats saying anything? Instead, what they're doing is many of them are saying Israel things and then they're pretending that they, that Rashida Tali doesn't exist until it's time to pose with her on the cover of a magazine so they can show the strength of the intersectional coalition. Chuck Schumer, the senate majority leader, he correctly said yesterday that the world blamed Israel unfairly for the hospital bombing. Here is Chuck Schumer, but of course he's had nothing to say over the course of years about any of his colleagues inside the Democratic Party who support terrorism. It was Chuck Schumer, by the way, who also helped usher through the garbage Iran deal, pushed by the Obama administration that helped strengthen Iran to strengthen the hand of Hamas for this attack. In the first place. Chuck Schumer voted against the deal, but only after giving permission to members of his own Caucus to vote in favor of the Iran deal.

0 (18m 12s):
Anyway, here is Chuck Schumer

4 (18m 15s):
Regret the loss of any life, any innocent life. Now there's con, there's proof put out by the Israelis that the rocket, of course was not from the i I from Israel, but rather was from one of the Palestinian groups that works with Hamas. And this is what Israel's up against. Israel didn't put out a statement immediately 'cause they were checking it. They wanted the truth. Hamas immediately said, oh, the I D F did it. They lied through their teeth and You know for six hours the world blamed Israel un unfairly. Now the word is getting out and I think all of us have an obligation to get that proof out.

0 (18m 56s):
Well, I mean that's true. It would be great if you speak up against the terrorist members of your own Caucus or terrorist supporting members of your own Caucus. By the way, one of my favorite things about the all these demonstrations is that this, this is now a reality. This happens all the time. So last night I spoke at the University of Florida about this topic. There was a pro Hamas rally outside. So members of my team went out there with cameras to ask people if they could describe what their end goal is like with a map of Israel and the Palestinian authority occupied areas, In, the kamas occupied areas, In the Gaza strip, and said, okay, I want you to explain to me which part of this ought to be Palestine. None of them would answer the questions, and that's because people are now being told, don't talk to the media because you might inadvertently show that you're genocidal, which presumably is why, for example, pro-Palestine demonstrators, according to the daily caller, gathered outside of the White House on Monday, refusing to denounce Hamas.

0 (19m 46s):
The daily callers. Joel Gibbons asked one man why he was at the protest. He started covering up his face. People, people refuse to answer questions. See, it seems to me, if you're at a protest, you should be able to answer questions about your protesting for, that's the purpose of a protest, but not according to these folks, because we all know why they're at the protest. The answer is that they support a terrorist group.

5 (20m 3s):
Do you want me to condemn Hama? I can't do that.

6 (20m 6s):
No one condemns violence. But at the same time, what else are the policies like? What else do you want us to do? I

7 (20m 11s):
Approve of anyone that fights for their freedom. I'm

8 (20m 14s):
Just asking, do you put'em condemn like the attacks like, like I

9 (20m 17s):
Tell you, the the Israeli savage attacks on Gaza where they're literally bombing thousands of babies. In, the Hamas fighters are underground not being touched. Can you explain to me why Israel is bombing thousands of babies as we speak? Can you explain that to me?

8 (20m 34s):
No, I don't. I don't. I'm not a fan. I'm

9 (20m 36s):
Not, you're not a fan. He's not a fan. Which, which team are you a fan of? I'm Which team are you a fan of?

0 (20m 42s):
Okay, so the answer to his question is, the reason that Israel has been bombing these targets with as much precision as it can is to kill as many kamas terrorists as it can. The reality is that if Israel would do what, what Israel needs to do right now is bomb the tunnels. Okay? The tunnels are all located 40 feet underground. Israel does have the ordinance to do that. They've been refraining from doing that because Kamas will not allow civilians to be cleared from the area. It's the exact reason Kamas won't allow civilians to be cleared from the area. Israel has been trying to get the civilians out of these areas so they can bomb the terror tunnels before they have to send Israeli men and women into these areas to fight hand to hand with terrorists while being shot at by civilians, by pseudo civilians, many of whom are still located in these parts of the Gaza Strip. That's the reality.

0 (21m 23s):
On a military level, what Israel actually needs to do is destroy the tunnels before it goes in. But because Hamas is hiding civilians on top and they have the sympathy of the world media, they understand that Israel can't even kill the terrorists. That's the whole plan to turn this thing into Vietnam for Israel, that if Israel goes in, it turns into Black Hawk down. That's the entire goal. That's the entire goal. That's why Hamas is keeping civilians up there. It's why civilians are dying right now. And in just one second, we'll get to the intersectional coalition, which again continues to be quite robust, even if it means backing terrorism. Get to that first.

Good Ranchers (21m 55s):
Every Halloween parents are warned about the potential dangers in Kids' Candy, and a lot of that is exaggerated, but the potential dangers you encounter every day, In, the meat aisle is truly spooky. Lab grown meat is growing more and more popular. It's not unusual for foreign meat to be labeled as product of the United States. You don't really know what's in that stuff. Fortunately, my friends at Good Ranchers have made it their mission to change all of that. This Halloween Good Ranchers is taking the trick out of their meat and they are throwing in a treat to, for my listeners, 30 bucks off your order with Promo code Shapiro at Good Ranchers dot com. The number one place to get America's best pork, beef, chicken, and seafood delivered is with Good Ranchers. Their products are transparently sourced, all American and delicious. When you shop at Good Ranchers dot com, you don't have to question what's in your meat because again, it is guaranteed 100% American. Take the mystery outta the meat aisle. Visit Good Ranchers dot com. Use my code Shapiro to get 30 bucks off with free express shipping. I know the quality of their product because they made me their only kosher steak and it was spectacular. It's code Shapiro for 30 bucks off your box at Good Ranchers dot com American Meat delivered again, go check them out right now. Good Ranchers dot com. Use my Promo code Shapiro and get 30 bucks off with free express shipping. The best meat in America today.

0 (22m 57s):
Okay, so the intersectional coalition, everybody understands that what is holding it together is hatred of the supposed power hierarchy. That's what this is. You know who understands this Kamas. Here's a flashback 2021. Here's the head of Kamas, actually is yay Yasir condemning American racism. Now what, what, why is this happening? Why The answer, of course, is because he is attempting to draw a kinship between black people in America and Palestinian Arabs living under the tyrannical rule of Hamas. But not because the Palestinian Arabs living under the tyrannical rule of, of Hamas are being oppressed by Hamas. No, because Israel is the great oppressor and it it's the coalition of the dispossessed nonsense. And by the way, this is exactly how many organizers for Black Lives Matter.

0 (23m 39s):
Talk about the Palestinian issue. They suggest that black Americans are living under the boot heel of the evil white American racist substructure In, the same way that Palestinians are leaving under the boots of the evil Zionist oppressor. That's the commonality. You wonder why b l m was tweeting out actual graphics of hang gliding, Palestinian terrorists murdering people. You wonder why they're, that's why You know Who knows that Hamas and they play on it. Here is Yayas Ssir doing exactly this just a couple of years ago. He says, I wanna take this opportunity to remember the racist murder of George Floyd. This guy's a terrorist.

10 (24m 18s):
George Floyd

0 (24m 19s):
Was killed As a result of a racist ideology held by some people. Literally, his, his charter says, kill all the Jews, by the way, should remind you this same type of racism that killed George Floyd is being used by the Israel against the Palestinians. They know the game, they know the intersectional game. They're playing the intersectional game, and they're enabled by the media to play that intersectional game because the media are part of the deal. The media love the intersectional game. The media allow them to continue to claim that the West is actually the great Satan. The West is the problem. It's all western structures of power. Israel's a colonialist outpost, In the Middle East. Nevermind the fact, the only reason anybody ever gave a crap about the land over there is because it's Jewish. In the first place, never nevermind the fact there's continuous Jewish presence.

0 (24m 59s):
In the land of Israel since literally the time of the Bible predating the existence of Islam by millennia doesn't matter. None of that matters. all that matters is the narrative. And the narrative is there's an intersectional coalition to take on the, the, the halls and the, and the pillars of power. This is, you wonder why a o c got sucked into this thing. You think a o c knows bleep about the Middle East. A o c barely knows how to tie her shoes In the morning a o c can't make herself a bowl of oatmeal. and that lady has the IQ of a kumquat. What does she, I mean, there's literal tape of her with Margaret Hoover explaining she knows nothing about the Middle East. Nothing.

11 (25m 35s):
You use the term the occupation of Palestine. Oh, what did you mean by that?

12 (25m 40s):
Oh, I think it, what I meant is like the, the settlements that are increasing in, in some of these areas and, and places where or Palestinians are experiencing difficulty and access to their housing and homes.

11 (25m 59s):
Do you think you can expand on that? Yeah,

12 (26m 1s):
I mean, I think I'd also just, I I am not the expert on geopolitics on this issue. You know,

0 (26m 7s):
And yet that lady is extremely vocal about all this. Why? Why? Well, because again, she's part of the Dispossessed coalition. This is the intersectional coalition that must be upheld at all costs, even at the expense of lots and lots of dead Jews. That's what's going on here. This is why a o c party girl of the Democratic socialist of America is suddenly deeply concerned about Iron dome In, the this, this ridiculous Instagram TikTok dope. I mean here, here she was yesterday talking about tax the rich and slicing lemons on the Instas. Also, she's, she's very much in favor of, of the Hamas. She, she kind of likes them. They're, they're kind of cool why they would kill her first opportunity. By the way, I mean like one of my favorite things about the intersectional coalition is that they're willing to ride or die with Hamas up until the point where Hamas actually kills them.

0 (26m 55s):
I noted yesterday again at the University of Florida, there were two protests that were simultaneously held outside my lecture at the University of Florida, both fairly small. One of them was a protest by the L G B T lfVtwK crowd, and the other was a protest by the pro ka mosque crowd. They get along all the way until the pro ka mosque crowd decides to kill every member of the L G B T lfVtwK crowd. In any case, here was a o c yesterday promoting her Democratic socialist ideals. Like, well, oh my God, like here's a lemon and I can slice it and it's like a citrus ooh.

13 (27m 21s):
Shout out to my radicals who think that maybe one way that we can deal with a lot of the shortfall that we have is to do things like legalize marijuana and tax the, the yeah, legalize

0 (27m 35s):
Pot So. we can

13 (27m 35s):
Fund our schools, or I don't know, tax the rich. Maybe we can tax the

0 (27m 41s):
Rich, tax the rich so that

13 (27m 42s):
People who have helipads on their house or near their house can help chip in for,

0 (27m 49s):
If you shake your head like aoc, it makes you intelligent. It doesn't make like actually underfunded dous from the valley Soca 1997. If you go like this a lot, it means that you're smart according to the media by the way, that that sweatshirt she's wearing the tax, the rich sweatshirt, you can buy it for $58 on her website. Exciting news from the tax, the rich crab. In any case, again, the intersectional coalition is all, and the entire media are in support of this. This is why, for example, Charles Blow has a piece at the New York Times. Again, his name is aptt. His columns absolutely blow. They are, they are awful universally. He has a, an entire piece of the New York Times today called an evolving Moral high ground In, the Israel Gaza War. What is the evolving Moral high ground? Pray tell the first two paragraphs tell the whole story. The terrorist attacked by Hamas against Israelis was horrid by baron inexcusable.

0 (28m 31s):
What is happening to innocent citizens of Gaza is also horrid and not a justifiable response to terrorist attacks. Ah, so retaliating against kamas is the same thing as Kamas, by the way, including tons of GA and civilians. I know this is part of the story that nobody wants to tell because it's ugly and it suggests that there are a lot of GA and civilians who actually kind of love Hamas. But there's tons of footage during the actual terrorist assault. Worst attack on Jews since the Holocaust of tons of GA and civilians. We're talking about kids as young as 14, 15 years old running into Jewish areas and stealing things or participating In the violence. But according to Charles Blow, there's a Moral equivalence. Why does he have to maintain the Moral equivalence again? It seems kind of weird. Why is it that advocates for Black Lives Matter, which is supposedly a civil rights organization, are protesting on behalf of one of the worst civil rights and human rights violators on planet Earth?

0 (29m 18s):
Why are they doing that again? Intersectional coalition. That's all that matters. And the media continue to lie on behalf of this intersectional coalition across the west c b s news, disgusting So. we all know at this point it has been thoroughly and completely debunked that the hit on the Gaza Hospital either killed 500 people 'cause it didn't hit the hospital. It hit a parking lot or two that it even was done by the Israelis. It was done by by Palestinian Islamic Jihad. There is audio tape we played yesterday on the show of Kamas operatives talking to one another and saying, oh boy, that was us, wasn't it? Oh, yes it was. It doesn't matter. Here's how C B SS news covered it. It was still Israel's fault.

14 (29m 55s):
The aftermath of the massive explosions at the Al Ali Hospital is still a smoking wreck. What should have been a safe haven has turned into a living nightmare. We left our home to come here. This woman says we thought it would be safe, but then we got bombed. The Anglican Church, which runs the hospital, has said it was struck before by an Israeli rocket just four days earlier injuring for members of staff speaking to C B S News. Final nine, A doctor at Al Ali says Israel's army sent a warning to evacuate the facility less than 48 hours before that explosion.

0 (30m 33s):
Okay, now pause. You may notice In the entire clip. Is there anything mentioning the fact that it was a Palestinian Islamic jihad rocket that fell In, the parking lot of the hospital, not a single thing. They're just ignoring it. They're pretending the story doesn't even exist. They're pretending the truth doesn't even exist. These scumbags, the media truly have blood on their hands because it turns out, it turns out that when you spin up terrorist supporters with lies about the blood libel Jews, it turns out people die because of that. But the media don't care. Christian Amanpour, another Hamas fan here she was yesterday promoting the idea there was the I D F lying. Under these circumstances, Christian Amanpour is disgrace to journalism.

15 (31m 11s):
Now the issue is, as you said, no matter what the Israelis say, and now what the US say are In the In, the beginning before there was any quote unquote investigate, well, there was an investigation and they came to their conclusions. It ignited the Arab world because this, they've seen so many times and because, and I'm sorry to say this because In the past, the Israeli I d f has not been honest about what actually happened. Look at Sina Abbu apla. I know that we keep talking about it. They

0 (31m 41s):
Always say Sina Abbu apla, which was a situation where it was unclear who shot Sena Abbu ala, and then You know who admitted that it was the Israelis. The Israelis. In any case, Christiana Mano are doing, doing Hamas' work for them because this is what so member, so many members of the mainstream media do. The bbc, which is absolutely worst on this, the BBC is so bad on this sort of stuff. The BBC's ingrained anti-Semitism is unbelievably strong, which is why seven separate journalists from the BBC In the last week alone have had to be fired or suspended because they posted on public media about how they were in solidarity with Kamas. It doesn't matter. Here was a B B C journalist saying the attack had to be Israel even though it clearly was not Israel.

16 (32m 18s):
The Israeli military has been contacted for comment and they have said that they are investigating, but You know it is hard to see. What else. This could be really given the size of the explosion other than an Israeli airstrike or several airstrikes, because You know when several air, we've seen rockets being fired out of Gaza. We never see explosions of that scale. We might see half a dozen, maybe a few more people being killed, these jokers

0 (32m 50s):
In such rocket attacks, honestly. But why are they doing this? Why? Why? The answer is twofold. One actual antisemitism. So there has been an overt attempt, particularly by members of the left since 1967, Israel's victory, In the six day war. There's been an attempt by the left to basically convert Israel into the world's big batty that was originally pushed by the Soviet Union, which was attempting to create a Pan Arab nationalism to use against the United States In, the aftermath of Israel's victory, In, the six day war. That's the geopolitics of this sort of anti-Semitism. But there's also this latent pro arabism that has existed particularly in Britain for a very long time. I don't know whether it's a weird sort of ethnocentric exoticism that exists in Britain or what the hell it is, but it is pathetically anti-Semitic, and when you promote blood libel the way the B B C routinely does, it costs actual lives.

0 (33m 38s):
We'll get to that in just one second because the consequences of the media lying about all this stuff and that they're also doing so obviously on behalf of, again, that same intersectional ideal. The West is bad, the west is colonialist, Israel is bad, Israel is colonialist. All these things are the same. Wrap them into an intersectional ball and then that will be your new movement. I mean, if ever you have wondered whether the intersectional movement is dangerous, yes, they're extremely dangerous. I don't just mean like ideologically dangerous. I mean people will get killed. Dangerous. Okay, in just a second, we'll talk about the reverberations of these lies. In, the intersectional coalition's garbage in just one second. First,

International Fellowship of Christians and Jews (34m 10s):
the world has obviously witnessed heinous attacks by Hamas terrorists against innocent Israeli civilians. The most recent attack was massive. It was devastating. Killed over 1500 Israeli men, women, children, babies. Thousands more have been injured. 200 are being held hostage after being kidnapped. The sworn enemy of Israel and the Jews will stop at nothing to slaughter every last Jew, obviously, but there is something you can do. The International Fellowship of Christians and Jews is on the ground right now providing critical essentials like food, medicine and other emergency supplies for vulnerable Jews who need immediate help. The need is urgent. This organization needs your help right now to Donate. Please go to Ben for the Fellowship dot org. Give as generously as you can write it down. That has been for the Fellowship dot org. Again, I've been making recommendations on many places that you can give. One of the best places you can give is the International Fellowship of Christians and Jews that are helping people on the ground right now in Israel. There's tremendous need. There are families that have been absolutely like completely destroyed. Tons of new orphans, tons of new widows, tons of people who are in desperate need. Head on over to Ben for the Fellowship dot org and a few have money in your wallet or the inclination. Please give generously Ben for the Fellowship dot org.

Bentkey (35m 12s):
Also, a bit of good news, if you haven't seen, we've launched our new kids content app on Monday, Bentkey. It is now officially the number one kids entertainment app. You guys did that. You download it. The content is awesome. My kids love it. It it's great material. It's stuff that your kids are actually gonna wanna watch and You know what's safe You. know what's safe. You can plant your kid in front of TV or in front of, in front of your phone for five minutes and know your kids aren't gonna hit. Get hit with radical trends, propaganda. They're actually actually just going to be watching fun, adventurous, good content. The kind of innocent content that we used to have growing up. You know when Disney was Disney before Disney turned into a woke factory of Garbage. Bentkey is also, by the way, bringing back Saturday morning cartoons because new episodes are released every Saturday morning So. you can wake up and watch new episodes from a wonderful day with Mabel McClay, Gus plus US Yeti Tales and more. If you don't have the Bentkey app yet, consider this your invitation to join the number one Kids app by downloading it today. If you're already a DailyWire annual member, great news, you have full access to all of Bent Key's, incredible shows at no extra cost. So if you're a subscriber, but not annual, you don't. But this is why you should become an annual subscriber. Now, again, it would normally cost 99 bucks to subscribe to Bentkey, but it's included in your annual DailyWire membership for free. So head on over right now to DailyWire dot com slash subscribe. Subscribe and you can get Bentkey as well.

0 (36m 26s):
Okay, meanwhile, the intersectional coalition, which has the media as its spokesperson, the the entire media infrastructure, which is dedicated to the proposition that the West is the bad guy In the world, and Israel is just a spear point for the left. That sort of stuff lends a lot of credence and credibility to the worst people In the world, which is presumably why according to the Wall Street Journal, the situation In, the Middle East has gotten significantly worse. Quote, the explosion at a Gaza hospital Tuesday night set off a wave of protests across much of the Middle East and the broader Muslim world. Some of them calling for death to Israel. There's a shock, and that doesn't matter by the way that the Palestinians killed their own people here and then lied about it doesn't matter at all. By the way, I I love that, that people are still repeating the casual, casual tea statistics brought to them by the Hamas Health Ministry.

0 (37m 11s):
A literal lying terrorist organization tells you how many people are dead and injured and that they have a magical ability, by the way to count this stuff in minutes, Israel is still figuring out exactly how many people were murdered from the October 7th attacks, which is like two weeks ago. Now, Kamas within minutes can tell you exactly to the person how many people were killed, their ages and who they were, or they're lying to you and the media are credulous morons, or they're not just credulous morons. They actually are quasi Promo. In any case, all of this has now exploded. In, the Middle East anger nevertheless spread quickly through the region. According to the Wall Street Journal riots broke out near the Israeli embassy and Jordan, where millions of Palestinian diaspora live, and which has had diplomatic ties with Israel since the 1990s. By the way, when they take the mil, the Palestinian diaspora understand that's not correct.

0 (37m 53s):
Trans Jordan was part of British mandate. Palestine trans Jordan is filled with Palestinian Arabs because British mandate, Palestine included Jordan, around 80,000 Turkish protesters descended on the Israeli consulates in Istanbul, some attacking security Forces and attempting to enter the compound according to authorities. Again, outta shock there, Turkey has been a long time Ally of Hamas. They famously attempted to send a flotilla of weaponry into Israel, which ended with Israel having to wa raid the Flotilla. and that of course was then blamed on Israel in Iran. Thousands of people across several cities demonstrated, including at the French and British embassies. That of course has ginned up by the Iranian government. A lot of Iranians are not anti-Israel. There's a, a sort of weird irony, In the Middle East, which is that in places where the government is the most anti-Isis Israel, the population tends to be the most kind of apathetic or okay with Israel.

0 (38m 37s):
That'd be like Iran and In. the places where the government is least anti-Israel, which would be like Saudi Arabia. The population hates Israel. It's kind of, it's kind of interesting. There are chance from protesters in Iraq, Iran on Tuesday night, calling for the death of Israel. Some governments like Turkey and Jordan have declared days of mourning that the governments themselves looking for an off ramp, off-ramp so that they can please their domestic constituency. They declared a day of mourning on behalf of a hospital massacre. That did not happen, number one and number two was caused by Palestinian Islamic jihad if it did. So all of this is propagandistic and the media did its best to promote all of that. Meanwhile, c n n is is having fun. They're doing their mostly peaceful protest thing, again, fiery, but mostly peaceful and on Jordan.

17 (39m 14s):
And we saw yesterday hundreds of people gathering, some protestors even attempting to store storm the Israeli embassy. So. we have seen a bit of an increase In the security presence here, although it has been mostly peaceful,

0 (39m 28s):
Mostly peace. I mean, sure they're trying to You know break into embassies, but it's mostly peaceful as we all know. This is the way that it works, just like the Black Lives Matter riots, which caused $2 billion in property, fiery, but mostly peaceful is what's happening over there. Meanwhile, Jordan's foreign minister, I'm on Safadi, said on Wednesday that they don't care whether Islamic Jihad bombed a hospital. They don't care about that at all. Instead, actually, there's deep skepticism quote, nobody is buying that narrative in this part of the world. Everyone here believes that Israel is responsible for it. The Israeli army is saying it's not. But to be honest, try and find anyone who's gonna believe it in this part of the world. I wonder why that is. Could that be because you've had generations of, of lies teaching that Jews are the scum of the earth and that they ought to be exterminated? May maybe it's that may, maybe it's because of that.

0 (40m 8s):
Meanwhile, all these Arab nations which care so deeply about the Palestinians in Gaza, they care so deeply about them. We are up to 21 Muslim nations that have expressed solidarity with the Palestinians. In Gaza, a a grand total of zero have offered any, any refugee assistance, any. In fact, Egypt's foreign minister came out yesterday and said, absolutely not. We're gonna, we're not gonna take any refugees. Said there's pressure on Egypt and other countries. In the region to absorb refugees from Gaza, Egypt refuses on principle. Ah, the principle is that you have to keep people in war zone. That's the principle that's a hell of an amazing principle that you've found there. Or maybe you don't want the Palestinian refugees in Egypt because you're afraid they're gonna destabilize your regime as they have routinely destabilized regimes ranging from Jordan to Lebanon.

0 (40m 52s):
Again, Lebanon is a case in point of what happens when Palestinian refugees and their leadership en masse enter a country. Lebanon used to be a fully functioning Christian country. Beirut was known as the Paris of the Middle East. It is now a trash heap. That would be the reason why Egypt does not wanna let in Palestinian refugees from the Gaza Strip. That's the exact rate. So instead, they're just gonna keep them in a war zone and encourage them to stand directly over terror tunnels to shield the terrorists. Meanwhile, it's, it's amazing. I love this nations In. the Middle East are apparently urging their citizens to evacuate Lebanon. Multiple countries have alerted their citizens inside Lebanon. They should immediately evacuate as Hezbollah ramps up its attacks on Israel's northern borders.

0 (41m 33s):
Reuters has reported that Hezbollah official Hashem ine give a speech to thousands of supporters on Wednesday, claiming the terrorist group was thousands of times stronger than it was In the past, threatening Israel and the West. Meanwhile, tons of nations, including, by the way, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia are urging people to leave Lebanon asap. Well, that's, that's interesting. So they're willing to take in You know people from Lebanon in Saudi Arabia, but not from the Gaza Strip. They're fa fascinating, fascinating stuff. Meanwhile, the I D F is announcing that residents of 28 towns long, the Israel Lebanon border needed to evacuate. You're talking about thousands and thousands of people being evacuated thanks to Hezbollah. Iran is ramping up its activities in various parts of the world. According to the Jerusalem Post.

0 (42m 13s):
The US military base in Iraq intercepted several drones targeting Iraq's Al, Assad airbase. The US has Forces at Al Assad and several other facilities in Iraq. Two drones were intercepted. So Iran is, is sort of exploring around the edges. Now, the reason that Iran is exploring around the edges is because of the open question about Joe Biden, and this is really what it comes down to. Does Joe Biden have deterrent power? Does he have the power to deter Iran from getting in? That's the real question. He's been saying a lot of the right things, but does anyone trust that Joe Biden is going to fill his word, that if Hezbollah starts firing tens of thousands of rocks in Israel, that the aircraft carriers stationed In, the Middle East will do something about that? That's an open question. Joe Biden's record up until now has suggested that he will do little to nothing, which is why there's so much tension.

0 (42m 58s):
In the region. If the United States were strong and muscular, it would lessen the chances of a serious regional war because everybody in Hezbollah would know, and we step off that line, we're gonna get clocked In the mouth by the most powerful military force, In the history of the world. But because everybody sort of suspects that Joe Biden is a bluffer, that is why everybody is on Tenter hooks right now. That is only exacerbated by some of the language that Joe Biden has been using. So Biden is saying some of the stuff that's correct. Yesterday, obviously he was in Israel and he says that he knows that the hospital attack was not, in fact, Israel here, here was Joe Biden yesterday.

18 (43m 31s):
Mom are upset about the hospital and don't necessarily believe you or the Israelis that they didn't have anything to do with it. Do you have a message to the people In the streets right now?

19 (43m 40s):
Well, I can understand why in this circumstance they wouldn't believe. I can understand that and, but I would not notice, I don't say things like that unless I have faith In the source from which I've gotten. Our defense department says it's highly unlikely that it was Israelis, but if a different footprint and intercepted anyway. And so that's why, if you notice, I didn't say it first. I been, I wanted to make sure that I knew. And so I, I don't know all the detail, but I do know the people, the defense department, who I respect.

19 (44m 21s):
I didn't tell the community that I respect be highly improbable, that Israel did. They,

0 (44m 28s):
Joe Biden does not project strength. He does not. He's saying some of the right things there. He still projects weakness not only in his person, but in some of his approach. In just one second, we'll get to more of that. This is one of the biggest problems In the Middle East right now, is that when America is credibly dangerous, the Middle East tends to go silent. When Donald Trump was president, the Middle East was quite silent. You know why, because everyone was afraid that that crazy dude was gonna beat the shit out of them. That's what they were afraid of with Donald Trump. That was his entire strategy. But when it comes to Joe Biden, everybody is kind of suspicious that maybe the stuff he says about standing alongside longtime allies, maybe it doesn't mean a lot since You know they did cut and run from Afghanistan, for example. Get to more on this momentarily.

USAFacts (45m 7s):
First, everyone has an opinion about everything these days. Obviously, they're now supposed experts on everything, but you need to make sure that your discussions are rooted in facts. You should check out U s A facts. It's a not-for-profit, non-partisan civic initiative committed to breaking down complex government data, making it easily accessible and digestible. For every American U s A facts is more than just a source of information. It's a tool that can help provide answers to pressing questions about the current state of the country. You can explore stats on key areas like education, crime, immigration, healthcare, empowering you to form your own opinions on whether the nation is thriving or struggling in these particular sectors. USA Facts can help provide the solid stats that you need to base your public debates on facts not on fiction. Before you jump into your next political debate, visit usa facts.org. Equip yourself with the robust data and facts that can help guide your way to productive and factual discussions and conversations. Make your voice heard backed by truth with usa facts.org. Again, that's usa facts.org. Very hard to find reliable information in today's world. USA facts.org is a place where you can find stats that you need to equip yourself better for political conversations. Check them out right now, USA facts.org.

0 (46m 8s):
Again, there's a lot of disquiet In the region because Joe Biden makes weird sounds. He makes weird sounds. Consistency and projection of strength are not merely about military posturing, meaning like moving aircrafter. People actually have to believe in your threat. The the word, the the phrase is credible threat, not just threat. So Joe Biden visiting Israel yesterday, he expressed his sympathy and then he warned Israel not to repeat rage fueled mistakes after nine 11. Now, and this sort of language is so paternalistic weird. It's so strange. What is he even talking about? Rage fueled mistakes. Israel Israel. It is now October 19th. This attack happened on October 7th. That means it has been nearly two weeks since 1500 Jews were slaughtered. Men, women, babies, 200 hostages being held underground by the worst terrorists on the planet.

0 (46m 50s):
Israel has yet to do a ground incursion, even by the way, for all the talk about there's no electricity and water in Gaza. The reality is that because Israel only provided like 10% of the electricity and water in Gaza, there still is in many parts of the Gaza Strip electricity and water, and Israel is providing that In the South. So where are these rage fueled mistakes that Biden is talking about? What exactly is he warning of other than it's like a get out of jail free card. If a stray bomb hits the wrong target and then he can claim that it was a rage fueled mistake. This is, this is, this is dumb language from the president.

19 (47m 20s):
I understand, and many Americans understand. You can't look at what has happened here to your mothers your fathers, your grandparents, sons, daughters, children, even babies, and not scream out for justice. Justice must be done. But I caution this while you feel that rage don't be consumed by it. After nine 11, we were enraged In the United States, while we sought justice and got justice, we also made mistakes.

0 (47m 54s):
I I'm wondering what exactly he's referring to there. I mean, Israel isn't invading a rock. I noticed they're talking about going deliberately into the area run by the exact terrorist group that actually murdered all of its citizens. What the hell is he talking about? Again, the question of Joe Biden's weakness is still first and foremost on a lot of minds. That's particularly the case when In the middle of all of this. The Biden administration said it'll ease sanctions against companies that trade in oil produced in Venezuela. So Venezuela is an Ally of Iran, which is the sponsor state of this terrorist attack. Venezuela is run by an evil dictator named Nicholas Maduro. And Joe Biden is attempting to coddle Venezuela because he wants to lower oil prices before the election. And so that, of course, is creating a feeling among a lot of America's worst enemies that You know.

0 (48m 35s):
If you got levers on some oil, then maybe you can actually You know shift the president of the United States here, Joe Biden will do anything to keep the oil prices low, which is not a place you wanna be. If you, if you feel like you can leverage the most powerful country In the world, that means that the President is projecting weakness and that is a real problem. Meanwhile, antisemitism continues to spread incredibly fast around the globe. There's an attempted synagogue burning in Berlin the other night. According to the B B C Berlin's, Jewish community has been shaken by two petrol bombs thrown into synagogue. I made a spike in anti-Semitic incidents in some European countries. Police said two people threw burning bottles filled with liquid in what was described as attempted arson.

0 (49m 14s):
Chancellor Olaf Schultz has expressed outrage at the attack. Violence broke out elsewhere in Berlin overnight. During anti-Isis Israel protests. Emergency services were pelted with bottles stones and fireworks. Protestors set barricades of light in a number of streets and one demonstration close to the brand In brigade involved 700 people that came as Hezbollah was calling for a day of rage. So again, European antisemitism on the rise largely In the radical Muslim community that was been, that's been imported into, into Europe over the course of the last few decades. Meanwhile, a synagogue was attacked in Spain as well, and it's called the Malila Synagogue. And there is tape of, of, you can see people rushing down the street toward the site of the attack.

0 (49m 55s):
The police are going to try and stop this in France, eight French airports were forced to evacuate for security reasons in eastern France. Strassburg Airport says it was evacuated due to a bomb threat. Antes Airport in western France was evacuated for the same reason. The airports of Beit and Tous In the southwest little In the North and Leon Bron In the Southeast, said Operations were resuming following a police operation. All were evacuated earlier on Wednesday because of a bomb scare in Tunisia, a synagogue that is not in use but did contain Tali scrolls was burned. Here's video of that happening. This is obviously footage that's released by fans of the, of the arsonists.

0 (50m 39s):
That's how you can tell with the, with the incredible str to the incredibly wonderful strains of Arabic language music happening right there. Beautiful, beautiful stuff, inspiring music as they burn a synagogue. Hundreds of tunisians, according to the Alga minor reportedly burned the Al synagogue on Tuesday evening, according to videos and images posted on TikTok. This is my favorite part of the lie about the state of Israel, that if the state of Israel ceased to exist, don't worry. The Jews will be treated great in Muslim countries. Yeah, I believe that you're totally right, guys, that that's going to happen. The synagogue does not currently function as a place of worship because there is no Jewish community because again, they were expelled. Videos posted the morning after show, much of the synagogue complex burnt with Arabic graffiti sprayed on the walls of the synagogue rooms, which remained intact.

0 (51m 24s):
They, they shattered all of the, they shattered all of the art inside the synagogue again, there was another dead deadly terrorist attack in May against the El Kba synagogue on the island of Yerba as well. So, and that happened a few months ago. They, they love Jews in this particular region of the world. So that's why it's so shocking when they, when, when a terrorist group kills a bunch of Jews and everybody reacts by blaming the Jews, that's, that's why we should all be shocked is because everyone over there we have been told by the Western media is a moderate liberal-minded person who would be perfectly at home in New York or Detroit or Chicago or anywhere else and would provide no threat to the West whatsoever. They're all wonderful liberal-minded people. There're just a few bad apples. Well, actually there are a bunch of people who think truly evil things and then there are people who are terrorists.

0 (52m 5s):
There's a distinction between the two people who believe truly evil things. That's not a death penalty offense, but pretending away the problem is not going to solve the problem, nor is it going to give Israel the wherewithal to Defend itself or the west, the wherewithal to Defend itself. Again, the West's constant belief in its in its own narcissistic centrality is, is truly incredible. And meanwhile, the Republicans continue to do what Republicans do, which is run directly into trees and kick themselves, In the ball simultaneously. So that, that, that is the thing that they are continuing to do. You know, you might think at this time that we, we would have some You know serious politicians on the scene. Unfortunately, this is America. We don't do that sort of thing around here. So the, the speakership of the House of Representatives is still very much up In the air.

0 (52m 51s):
Jim Jordan, who was the person who was going to run after Steve Salia, remember Kevin McCarthy was ousted by Matt Gates for mm, how they, they threat McCarthy and their plan was to and to gain concessions like, but they threat McCarthy because it had to be done 'cause the establishment, I do love that the word establishment in Republican parlance now just means people who don't rant at walls. Like that's literally what it means. Like if you rant at the wall, then you're, then you're anti-establishment. But if you don't rant at walls, then you're probably part of the establishment.

0 (53m 31s):
It it has no ideological con content. By the way, the word establishment has no actual policy content. If you're Paul Ryan and you want deep cuts to the social security Medicare medicaid that are driving America's national debt, you're an establishment rhino. But if you want to increase spending, if you're a big spending New York Republican, you are also an establishment rhino. If you are a socially conservative Republican like Mike Pence, sorry to say, you are an establishment rhino also, if you are a socially liberal member of the Republican Caucus, like say Kristin Nuno, you are an establishment rhino. If you're a hawkish on foreign policy like Lindsey Graham, you're an establishment rhino. But if you're kind of dovish like John Huntsman, well that also an establishment rhino like the, the word just means whatever people want it to mean.

0 (54m 16s):
And these days what it means is you are not sufficiently loud or something or you got a thing done. If you got a thing done that's evidence that you like the other side if you got a thing done. So that's why Kevin McCarthy had to be ousted. It doesn't matter that by the way, any speaker of the house is gonna have to cut exactly the same kind of deals that Kevin McCarthy did because I know this is hard to, hard to believe, but believe it or not, there's a Democratic senate and a Democratic president and so it doesn't matter what house bill you pass, that doesn't make it through the Senate or to the president or get passed, but it doesn't matter. They got rid of Kevin McCarthy because their excellent, excellent plan was, hmm. Anyway, they got rid of Kevin McCarthy, then they had an internal election between Steve Sise, who's the House majority Whip, and Jim Jordan, the head of the house oversight committee.

0 (54m 57s):
I like both guys. I know both guys, both good guys. Both would make good speakers. Scalise won the internal election, won 13 to 99. So then they're like, okay, fine, we will go forward as United front, except they didn't have the votes for Scalise because all it takes is peeling off four Republicans not voting for Scalise in order for him not to become the speaker. So he withdrew. He's like, I'm not doing this. This is garbage. It's ruining my life. Nope. So Jim Jordan is like, okay, fine, y fine, I'll do it. So Jim Jordan was on, on the first ballot, he came up 20 votes short on the second ballot, he came up 22 votes short with seven Republicans voting for Scalise, five voting for McCarthy, three for Lieb Elden, one voted for John Bainer.

0 (55m 37s):
By the way, who did all the Democrats vote for Hakeem Jeffries. So this is all going absolutely astonishingly well because it turns out that, again, if being establishment means that you run directly into trees and kick yourself In the ball simultaneously, the Republicans are doing an amazing, amazing job. On the one hand you have the G o p moderates in, in New York districts who are deeply afraid that if Jim Jordan is the speaker of the house, that they're going to basically lose their seats. On the other hand, you have the freedom Caucus, which is trying to be principled in some ways, but refusing to acknowledge reality in others. You can see, you can see the the battle happening inside the Republican Caucus because no one will acknowledge the actual reality, which is the incentive structure is exactly the same. You know a fractious Caucus, certain cuts will be made.

0 (56m 19s):
You're not gonna get everything you want. Democrats run the Senate, In the White House, deal with it. Sorry. That's the reality. And I know there are a lot of people in my particular industry who spend all day and all night telling you that you can have the moon. You can't. That's not how this game works. I'll tell you where the Republicans stray from principle. I promise you, I'll tell you where they come up short. I'm happy to tell you that what they couldn't get done. Also, I live in a world called reality world and in reality world, Republicans aren't gonna get everything they want because they have a Caucus that is only 221 seats and a minority In the Senate and not the presidency in any case. Here was one G O P moderate representative Don Bacon. He, he was boasting yesterday that Jordan was headed for defeat.

0 (56m 59s):
Quote, he'll fight to the death likely and we won't let off. Their tactics angered us that harassing our spouses. Even Jordan hit a brick wall, which by the way seems to be the case. In the first vote for Jordan 20 Republicans defected In, the second vote, 22 Republicans defected. Meanwhile, chip Roy, a representative I actually trust, member of the Freedom Caucus chip's, a really good guy would make a great speaker, but would never be elected speaker because again, many Republicans are too left wing for that chip Roy, there's talk now about Democrats joining with Republicans to empower the Speaker pro Tem Patrick McHenry because they're so dysfunctional, they have to go to the Democrats and be like, what? What concessions can we make to you? So, we can have a functioning house. Here's Chip Roy being like, what the hell are we doing guys? What is this?

22 (57m 39s):
Never In the history of this institution. Never to the best of my knowledge have we ever appointed a speaker pro tem with the full powers of the speakership without having elected a duly elected speaker. We have not done that. To the best of my knowledge to do that would be playing games with such an important position. That's third in line to the to the presidency. We should do our job and select a speaker. The Constitution says that. So any move to do otherwise is contrary to the Constitution and would do enormous damage to not just the Republican Party, but the House of Representatives. And I violently opposed any effort to do that on the floor of the house. Do do you think there

0 (58m 14s):
Chip Roy's Exactly correct. But that's where it may end up. If Republicans can't actually agree amongst themselves to elect a speaker, even if they have disagreements with the speaker from time to time. Again, this is just stupid. First rule of politics, don't interrupt your opponents while they're making a mistake. Second rule of politics. Don't run directly into trees while kicking yourself. In the balls. Republicans seem dedicated to breaking both rules. Alright guys, the rest of the show is continuing right now. We'll be joined on the online by Ellie Beer. He's the founder and president of United Sala, which is an emergency response service in Israel. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro at checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link, In the description and join us.

Jeremy's Chocolate (58m 51s):
Are you still getting your Chocolate from woke? Companies? Get Jeremy's Chocolate instead available and he him with nuts and she her nut list because whether it's Halloween or not, Jeremy's knows that not everyone can be a mummy. Get yours in full size or shareable microaggression size and stock up for Halloween without supporting woke companies. Go to jeremy's Chocolate dot com today.