Optima Health (1s):
Oh, hello Meet. Optima Health, your friend for Medicaid coverage. Like any true friend, we can help make life a little easier with discounts on healthy food and gift cards for pregnancy and child checkups. We include vision and medical help 24 7. See more benefits at Optima Medicaid dot com slash Hello, it's time to say hello to Optima Health A health plan. you can count on

2 (30s):
As. America prepares for yet another brutally fought close for an election. the potential censors increase their volume. Jill Biden has positive for Covid and we examine whether Donald Trump's old colleagues are about to flip on him. I'm Ben Shapiro. This is The Ben Shapiro Show.

ExpressVPN (48s):
Today's show is sponsored by ExpressVPN. Do. you like your web history being seen and sold to advertisers? No, me neither. Get ExpressVPN right now at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

2 (55s):
Well, in the last election cycle, there was an awful lot of talk about disinformation and misinformation. Remember, there was a conflation that occurred between 2016 and 2020 first in 2020. The story was disinformation. This was the Russians were mainlining a bunch of foreign propaganda into America's election and thus twisting the election against the wonderful and innocent Hillary Clinton. and for the evil Russian stooge, Donald. Trump That was the narrative in 20 16 20 17 And. then it kind of bled away because it turns out the data wasn't there to suggest that it looked like the Russians had a bunch of crappy Facebook pages that not all that many people saw. And so instead, the media turned to their new variant of disinformation, which was misinformation.

2 (1m 35s):
Misinformation is just stuff the media doesn't like because sometimes it's true and sometimes it's false, but you can't tell the difference in the way that the media treat misinformation. And thus, when it came to 2020, the argument was, for example, that the Hunter Biden laptop story, well, it wasn't quite disinformation 'cause you couldn't tell if it came from the Russians, but it might be misinformation. And by misinformation they just meant something we don't really want you to see. And ever since 2017, there's been all this talk in social media spheres about the stuff that you should see and the stuff that you shouldn't see. All this talk about the vast panoply of misinformation that is going to be crammed down upon you so that you won't know right from left. You won't be able to know right from wrong. You won't be able to know what's true and what is false. And this Invariably ramps up just before a presidential election because what the media really want you to believe is that they are the arbiters of truth.

2 (2m 21s):
They are the ones who will tell you what is misinformation and what is not misinformation. If it doesn't come courtesy of the Washington Post or the New York Times. If it comes courtesy instead of shows like this one, it must be misinformation. And to prove the point, the media and its various allied interest groups, they will lobby social media to shut down other outlets to reduce their reach. They'll use the slogan it well, you know, it's not freedom of speech, it's freedom of reach, and that there's no such thing as freedom of reach. So if we just downgrade The Daily Wire while upgrading the New York Times, while we've fought back against misinformation, and once again, misinformation, sort of like hate speech remains an undefined term. There's certain stuff that we can all agree would be misinformation. If you say, for example, that the world is flat, that would be misinformation.

2 (3m 4s):
But also that's fairly easily rebutted. See, here's the beautiful thing about misinformation. It's possible to rebut virtually all misinformation with actual good information. The problem for the left very often members of the mainstream media is they don't want their bad information rebutted. They don't like the Community Notes feature on Twitter because it might smack them once in a while. Well, they're starting to ramp up in anticipation of 2024 because again, if you look outside the boundaries of traditional media, you might notice for example, that Joe Biden is not an empathetic, older character with a sterling history of wonderful honor in his office. Instead, he might look like a career corrupt politician who has plagiarized everybody in sight and used his position of power in order to enrich himself and his family.

2 (3m 45s):
He might look like that if you look at the quote unquote misinformation sources. And so now the media are ramping up the calls, the hue and cry for Censorship in advance of the 2024 election and nothing new under the sun. This is the same thing as 2020. They're just replaying it. The latest indicator of this is a long piece from Christiano Lima from the Washington Post titled Why a Perfect Storm of Misinformation May Loom in 2024. This is also, by the way, a built-in excuse for why Joe Biden loses. So if Biden loses the answer is going to be not that he was a bad candidate, not that you ran a geriatric doddering fool who can't spew sentences from his face hole. A person who has a terrible economic record, a person who has all the empathy of a kumquat, that's not gonna be your fault.

2 (4m 24s):
It's going to be the fault of all the misinformation. It's the, the corrupt situation wouldn't allow Joe Biden to win. They're already setting up for that narrative as well. Here's what the piece says. A majority of researchers expect global misinformation to worsen in 2024 with politicians and social media posing the most serious threats according to a new survey released Tuesday. So first of all, let me just point out, are you, are you saying that politicians lie sometimes they're not wholly truthful? No, no speak not of such evils. Honestly, this is so stupid. The poll which surveyed almost 300 researchers across 50 countries found that only a small fraction, 12% think the information environment in their countries will improve. Next year. 54% said it would deteriorate.

2 (5m 5s):
The International Panel on Information Environment said the Swiss, the Swiss based non-governmental organization behind the survey said the results demonstrate significant pessimism among the experts. Oh, oh, the experts, they're pessimistic. These would be the same experts who declared that Hunter Biden's laptop was actually just a Russian plant or something. The findings arrive as platforms including Meta and Elon Musk's ex rollback policies and scale back teams dedicated to combating misinformation ahead of major elections in the United States, Europe, and India. Now, it's worth noting at this point that authoritarian states, like for example, Venezuela or borderline authoritarian states like say Mexico, that are ruled by members of the left, the the rule of Lula de Silva in Brazil.

2 (5m 46s):
These people are very friendly towards shutting down quote unquote misinformation. Is the information environment in Brazil getting stronger or weaker over the course of the last couple years? Ever since Lou's election, by the way, right? The story of course was that Bolsonaro was the real authoritarian. Well, Lula hasn't been shy about shutting down his political opposition in Brazil. It's just the media doesn't care about that because they like Lula. Philip Howard says he's the professor at University of Oxford and share of the I P I E said, quote, this has the potential to create a perfect storm next year. He says that staffing cuts to tech companies moderation forces pose a huge risk. According to the survey, two thirds of researchers said the inability to hold social media as companies accountable over botched content moderation efforts posed a significant hurdle.

2 (6m 27s):
55% reported poorly done automated moderation was another. So in other words, they want to be able to sue, governments want to be able to sue social media companies in order to get them to do the thing that they themselves are not allowed to do. So the government of the United States is not allowed to shut you down on free speech terms, but you know what they can do? They can pressure YouTube to do so. They can pressure Facebook to do so. They can pressure X to do so while a third of researchers globally flagged social media companies as one of the most serious threats to healthy discourse. Those that specialize in regions with democratic governments said politicians themselves posed a bigger risk. And of course here they just mean right-wing politicians, right? These, these are the things that they care about. This is the the they're worried about right-wing politicians.

2 (7m 7s):
Hint, hint, they mean they mean Trump. They're worried about people who are gonna say false things. In the meantime, they will maintain their position is the arbiters of the ultimate truth. Of course they lie too, and they cover things up and they do so from a particular perspective. I'll give you an amazing example in just one second.

Pure Talk (7m 24s):
First is your cell phone in desperate need of replacement. You know the signs already. You got the short battery life, you have to have a charger on hand at all times. You got that cracked screen that gives you glass splinters. It's time to put that old phone out to pasture Upgrade to a new five G Samsung Galaxy from Pure Talk for free. Get a free five G Samsung Galaxy with two day battery life edge to edge display. Ultra strong Gorilla Glass when you sign up for Pure Talk's unlimited talk text and 15 gig data plan for just 35 bucks a month. Plus it comes with mobile hotspot as well. If you're not using Pure Talk, you're simply paying too much money. It's that simple. Get all the data you could ever need for half the price of the big carriers on America's Most Dependable five G network. I use them for all my business phone calls. And you know, those calls matter a lot to me, so I wouldn't risk it on a bad carrier. Pure Talk is great. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro for your free super durable five G Samsung Galaxy. When you switch on over to Pure Talk again, visit Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Make that switch to my cell phone company, Pure Talk, the official wireless partner of The Daily Wire, go check them out right now. Get the great coverage, get the new phone. Really got nothing to lose. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro for your free super durable five G Samsung Galaxy, and you're getting better coverage. Anyway, that is Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro.

Optima Health (8m 29s):
Oh, hello Meet Optima Health, your friend for Medicaid coverage. Like, any true friend, we can help make life a little easier with discounts on healthy food and gift cards for pregnancy and child checkups. We include vision and medical help 24 7. See more benefits at Optima Medicaid dot com slash hello, it's time to say hello to Optima Health, a health plan you can count on.

2 (8m 57s):
Okay, so here is a perfect example of what the media would deem to be good information. So Philip Bump is a fact checker for the Washington Post. I say fact checker with a, with a fair bit of scorn because he is not exactly an unbiased source, is a is Philip Bump of the Washington Post, and he's a national columnist for, for their newspaper. He appeared on a podcast, the person named Noam d Warman, the Comedy Cellar podcast. And Noam Warman asked him a pretty simple question about Joe Biden's apparent corruption. His suggestion was that Joe Biden has been involved in hunter's corruption pretty obviously for the past 20 years.

2 (9m 39s):
Now, again, hard to imagine that that's not the case given what we now know up to and including the information from Hunter Biden's laptop talking about 10% to the big guy, all of the money that was obviously flowing to Hunter because Hunter was using Daddy's name, Joe Biden phoning into meetings even if only to talk about the weather. Just to demonstrate Hunter's connection to Joe Biden, apparently members of the upper staff at Barisma openly talking about the kind of corruption that they were able to effectuate with Joe Biden in office. Okay? But no's Warman asked the biggest question of, all right, this is the one I've asked as well, which is there's an actual text from Hunter to his own daughter, Naomi, literally saying that he paid half of his dad's bills.

2 (10m 20s):
What's the deal? And Philip Bump again. Philip Bump is a, is a columnist for the Washington Post. He does analysis and he literally just refuses like he knows what the question is, but he refuses to even allow it to compute. It's an amazing spectacle. Here we go.

5 (10m 37s):
What do you take from the text message to his adult daughter? Hundreds text messages. I have to give 50% of my income to pop.

6 (10m 44s):
I have no idea what that means. I don't, I have no idea what that means. Well, it's, it's, it's, it's, I know it's circumstantial evidence and you prefer that to correct. No. What, what could it be? I, I have no idea. But doesn't, I don't know. Well, I appreciate your idea.

5 (10m 54s):
Has anybody asked her?

6 (10m 56s):
I, I don't know. I don't know.

5 (10m 57s):
Don't you think somebody should ask her?

6 (10m 59s):
Okay. Like I, I'm not, I just said I don't know and I don't know what to make of it, so I have nothing to to say about it, but doesn't what I want to say. Yeah, but you say there's

5 (11m 5s):
No evidence. No evidence, but then there's a text message where he says, I give pop 50% of my money. That's, that's evidence.

6 (11m 11s):
Okay, well, what do, okay, fine, fine. So that's evidence. I appreciate you having me out.

2 (11m 15s):
Okay. And then he tries to walk off the show, then he tries to walk off the show. Now listen, I've walked off of shows before where somebody was being personally offensive to me. It was a bad move. I shouldn't have done it, but I've never walked off a show because I was asked about a piece of evidence that contravened my argument. That's a, that is a wild thing right there. So Philip bu just prefers not to see the corruption involving Joe and Hunter, and thus it does not exist. I don't know what to make of that. What do you mean you don't know what to make of that? We all know what to make of that. The honest answer there would be, well, you're right. That's suspicious. It's weird that Hunter would text his daughter that he's paying half of his dad's bills. There could be various explanations ranging from he was paying literally half his dad's bills to, he was exaggerating to his daughter for a fact, to he was high as a kite.

2 (11m 59s):
We'd have to await more evidence from actual bank records to prove whether that's true or not. But yeah, that's a weird thing for Hunter to say, like, that'd be an honest take that still leaves the door open to Joe not being guilty, but he is not even willing to humor that. I, I don't know. I literally don't know. Okay. I, I dunno if you've ever seen the H B O show Westworld first season is really good. Second Season's a mess in that show. It's a basically, it, it's basically about these very sophisticated robots in a, in a made up world that is a, a western land, right? This is why it's western world. The robots are programmed, so they can't actually compute data that is not within their dataset. So if they see something that's completely out of place, it just doesn't compute for them. They don't see it. And so the catchphrase of the robots is, it doesn't look like anything to me.

2 (12m 42s):
And every time they see a piece of data that doesn't match the world around them, so if they're in Westworld and suddenly they see a car driving through and somebody says, didn't you see that car? They'll say, it doesn't look like anything to me. That's Philip Bump. He's the, he's the robot, he's the left Wing robot. That text message doesn't look like anything to him. He can't see it. It's right here and he can't see it. It looks like nothing to him. Thanks for having me on. And these are the people who are policing misinformation. These are the people who he have tasked with policing the flow of information in our society, which says to me that they're not that worried at all about misinformation. What instead they're worried deeply about is information that they don't like getting out there in the public sphere.

2 (13m 22s):
By the way, Philip Bump writes routinely about quote unquote misinformation. He wrote a column just last week titled, why Do Republicans Disproportionately Believe Health Misinformation? A month and a half before that, he wrote another one, A deeply ironic reinforcement of right Wing misinformation. He's constantly writing about misinformation, like it's, it's his favorite thing to write about. And yet there he is not even bothering to make any sort of legitimate argument about why the thing that is right in front of him is fake. He just pretends it doesn't exist. It is in this world that misinformation truly does flourish because it used to be that at the very least we could have arguments over what was true and what was false.

2 (14m 2s):
And then we'd bring evidence and we'd marshal that evidence, and then we'd agree once, you know, the evidence had been marshaled, that something was true and something was false. But in a world where you just ignore the opposing argument utterly, where just it doesn't even compute, it just recedes into the wallpaper. How the hell am I supposed to believe anything you say? And this brings us to Covid. We'll get to that in just one second.

PreBorn! (14m 21s):
According to a recent study of hundreds of post-abortive women, 60% of women reported they would have preferred to give birth if they had received more support from others or had more financial security. This is where Preborn steps in Preborn is there for women in their darkest hours deciding between the life and death of their precious child. The reality is women are being lied to. They're being told to make this fatal decision because of outside pressures or because they don't have the capacity to make the decision, because they don't have the financial wherewithal or whatever. This is where Preborn helps. They're also being lied to by being told it's just a clump of cells, which isn't true. Preborn welcomes women with love and introduces them to the beautiful life growing inside them, which doubles their baby's chance at life. When you support Preborn, you not only support women, you empower them. Your donation of 28 bucks will help a woman receive a free ultrasound. Your love can save a life. Ultrasound saves lives. I mean, I gotta tell you, I I have four kids. We have tremendous ultrasound pictures from all of them. Even the difference in the ultrasound quality between child number one and child number four is absolutely astonishing. So if you can donate right now, dial pound two 50, say key word baby, that's pound two 50 baby, or go to preborn dot com slash Ben, that's preborn dot com slash Ben to help start saving lives. Right now with Preborn,

Optima Health (15m 26s):
Oh, hello Meet Optima Health, your friend for Medicaid coverage. Like, any true friend, we can help make life a little easier with discounts on healthy food and gift cards for pregnancy and child checkups. We include vision and medical help 24 7 see more benefits at Optima Medicaid dot com slash Hello, it's time to say hello to Optima Health, a health plan you can count on.

2 (15m 55s):
Okay, so Meanwhile, we are heading into an election cycle where Joe Biden is not Veal. Joe Biden barely makes it out of his bed each morning or out of his crypt. He, he spends most of his days wandering around alone on Rehoboth Beach with his shirt off, horrifying the natives and, and so they're already setting up the predicate for what his campaign is gonna look like and it's gonna be he's too old and he's too scared of Covid to go outta the basement again, we're setting up for that again in order to maintain that narrative. However, we must make everybody feel very scared of Covid because if, as it turns out, COVID is not killing massive, massive numbers of people in the United States, if it turns out the risk factors that first attended to Covid at the very beginning aren't even the risk factors that attend to the latest bout of Covid that people are experiencing.

2 (16m 37s):
If it turns out that a huge percentage of the population either has natural immunity or V immunity or that are standards of care are way better and so the death rates are significantly lower than the original variant, then people are gonna look at Joe Biden wearing a mask around and be like, what's he doing? Isn't this just an excuse for him not to be in the public eye? Okay, well yesterday Jill Biden tested positive for Covid. According to Axios, she's experiencing only mild symptoms. She's gonna remain at home in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware. President Biden tested negative for the virus. He's going to test at a regular cadence this week and monitor for symptoms. He's supposed to leave Thursday for a G 20 summit in India. The first lady's positive test results is Axios come amid a surge in covid infections across the United States after the emergence of new variants over the summer.

2 (17m 20s):
Now, I mean we're also getting back into fall territory. Kids are going back to school. You're gonna see a surge in a lot of virus, like a, an awful lot of virus over the course of the summer and also the fall, like for, for example, my kid recently, because I have kids and my kids are constantly sick. Basically it's just a juggling act as to which one of them is gonna be sick at any given time. One of my kids came down with strep last week, went into the doctor. She's like, yeah, it's a huge percentage this year. Is that because of the evils of covid or is it just because kids are associating with one another freely? Again, the immunity is a little down 'cause they spent the last couple of years bubbled depending on where you live and all the, in any case, they're already setting up the predicate for Joe Biden to hide in the basement. So here's Kain Shapiro world's worst press secretary explaining that Joe Biden is now going to mask up indoors because you should mask up indoors 'cause it's so dangerous.

2 (18m 3s):
Guys,

7 (18m 5s):
President Biden tested negative last night for C Ovid 19 and tested negative again today. He's not experiencing any symptoms as far as the steps that he's taking since the president was with the First Lady yesterday. He will be masking while indoors and around people in alignment with C D C guidance. And he as, as has been the practice in the past, the president will remove his mask when sufficiently distanced from others indoors and while outside as well.

2 (18m 34s):
So much silencing happening right here. Insane levels of silencing happening. Joe Biden is going to, he'll be socially distancing and he'll be wearing his mask on occasion, a surgical mask, I assume not an N 95, which would be the thing to actually protect him, a man his age or any of the rest. All of this is part and parcel of a broader covid alarmism that is about to spring onto the scene so we can have this culture, this stupid culture war all over again, thanks to a left that that continues to maintain that they did all the right things during the Covid pandemic, according to N P R, the US is seeing a late summer spike in covid cases, prompting some schools, hospitals, and businesses to encourage or even require people to start masking up again. The most recent C D C data from earlier this month shows nationwide covid hospitalizations increased by nearly 19% in a single week and deaths by more than 21%.

2 (19m 17s):
Now this is what we call fund with base rates. This is where you have a pretty low rate, it increases slightly and that looks like a 21% increase, right? If I make a buck a day and then suddenly I make a buck 21 a day doesn't mean I got rich. That's a 21% increase. Okay? So 21% that, that's like depending on what your base rate is, that might mean a lot or it might not mean very much at all. According to c D C director Mandy Cohen, she said up to 10,000 people a week have been hospitalized with Covid, but that is far fewer than the 40,000 such hospitalizations a week. The United States had a highest point last August. She said we're at a much different, better place this August of 2023. But she says Covid remains risky for people who are unvaccinated.

2 (19m 58s):
So now they're gonna start pushing the VAX again. Apparently the latest version, which is nicknamed ris, right? It was Omicron, but Omicron has now been dispensed with, so now it's ris, it has become dominant in the United States. Apparently it's more transmissible, but it doesn't cause more severe disease. So for the vast majority of people, it looks like a cold for like the vast, vast, vast, vast, vast majority of people. It looks like cold doesn't matter. We're still gonna talk about how everybody needs to mask up. Again, speaking of health misinformation, this is pretty amazing stuff. So Anthony Fauci was finally asked about masking and he was asked by someone on CNN, believe it or not, this is Michael Smirk who was like, you. You notice that those giant mask mandates didn't do anything to lower the rates of transmission and Fauci just tries to fuss his way.

2 (20m 41s):
This is not misinformation when Fauci says it, because he is of course the science, it is also not misinformation. When he overtly says to his colleagues at the beginning of the pandemic that this might have been produced in a Chinese lab and then immediately reverses field and tries to get them to attest to the idea that it was natural made. In any case here was Anthony Fauci distributing misinformation.

8 (21m 1s):
If in fact we get to the point where the volume of cases as such, and organizations like the C d C recommend c d C doesn't mandate anything, I mean recommends that people wear masks. I would hope that they abide by the recommendation and take into account the risk to themselves and to their families. And again, we're not talking forcing anybody to do anything, okay?

2 (21m 25s):
They always say they're not talking about forcing anybody to do anything. And then the next thing that happens is an attempted force. I also love that he's, he, he was asked actually by Michael Mish, so the mask mandates didn't actually do anything. He's like, well, but for individuals they might, ugh, this is so tiresome. That's not the only piece of bad science going out the door. You have Dr. Vin Gup on M S N B C doing the same routine. He's now claiming that if you're above the age of six months, you should get a covid vaccine. These things are untested on infants, they're not.

9 (21m 50s):
So all of us need boosters. So six months of and up, we're gonna have boosters by the end of this month, hopefully, and those will protect, we believe very strongly against these new versions of the virus.

2 (22m 1s):
Oh, so tiresome, so, so tiresome. Again, remember, trust the experts. Trust the expert. If we've learned one thing over the past few years where the experts have screwed the pooch in every available way, from economics to health policy, to electoral policy, it's trust the experts obviously, and don't believe any of the misinformation. In just one second, we'll get to the latest in the 2024 campaign.

Ruff Greens (22m 21s):
First, we have a dog, his name is happy. Happy is a really, really nice doggie. He is. He, he had himself a wonderful weekend where he got to associate with with the other dogs and really had himself a good time. Well, here's the thing. We want happy to live a long and healthy life. This is why we give him a rough Greens every morning. The dog food you're giving your dog that food is dead food. It has very little nutritional value. I mean, look at it, it's like dried pieces of gunk. Green food has nutritional value, rough Greens boost happy food back to life. It can do the same for your dog as well. You don't have to go out and buy new dog food. Just sprinkle rough Greens on your food every single day. It contains all the necessary vitamins and minerals your dog is not getting from their regular dog food. Happy loves his rough Greens. It is keeping him happy and healthy and delightful. Rough Greens is the only supplement your dog will ask for by name. Rough Greens, you get it because it's a joke. Naturopathic doctrine and it's black, the founder of Rough Greens, he's so confident this product will improve your dog's health. He's offering my listeners a free Jumpstart trial bag. Go to rough Greens dot com slash Ben. Let rough Greens bring your dog's food back to life. That's R U F F Greens dot com slash Ben today. Or call 8 3 3 MY DOG 33. Once again, that is 8 3 3 MY DOG 33.

2 (23m 25s):
Okay, Meanwhile, speaking of misinformation, I can't believe that we are still being subjected to the idiotic idea that secretaries of state across the land are gonna be able to simply delist Donald Trump from the ballot based on the 14th Amendment to the Constitution. Based on what? Seriously, based on what The idea that he violated the Insurrection Act. You've got to be kidding me. you know, there is a crime in American laws called insurrection. you know what? They're not charging Donald Trump with insurrection. Jack Smith isn't doing it. Fannie Willis isn't doing it. Nobody is doing it. It doesn't matter. The left has decided again, because they are our moral arbiters and the arbiters of our truth, that you can simply ban Donald Trump from the ballot and magically he will just go away.

2 (24m 5s):
And what's really driving that of is of course, how much they hate Trump. I mean, the idea here is that if we ban Trump from Bell, we never have to think about him again. What does it matter? What the actual law says that is at least is the perspective of Sonny Hostin, of of the view. Again, one of our resident geniuses over there. Here's what she had to say.

10 (24m 21s):
I think the larger question is he's gonna be convicted of something, right? I've said it all the time. Federal defendants get convicted like 97% of the time State def in in the Georgia case, he's on tape for one of the charges. So he's gonna get convicted. The larger question is why is he even allowed to run and on? you know, and I've said it over and over again, Now, there are these legal, and Alyssa and I were talking about it earlier, there are conservative legal minds and experts that are saying that under the 14th Amendment he is not even allowed to run even though he hasn't been convicted yet. Because the 14th Amendment says if you've participated in public office after taking an oath to this country in a, in an insurrection, you are ineligible to run.

2 (25m 5s):
Oh my God. Don't worry guys. That's not misinformation. She's just, she's just being a legal analyst. you know that Tony Hostin was the senior legal correspondent and analyst for a b C news, which just shows you the quality of, of legal analysis these days. Donald Trump rightly was ranting about this yesterday on truth social. He says, almost all legal scholars have voiced opinions that the 14th Amendment has no legal basis for standing relative to the upcoming 2024 presidential election. Like election interference is just another trick being used by the radical left communist Marxists and fascists to again steal an election that their candidate, the worst, most incompetent and most corrupt president in US history is incapable of winning in a free and fair election. Make America great again. Now, he's not wrong about any of that. He is not. It doesn't matter. We're gonna see articles from now up till election day about why he should be removed from the ballot.

2 (25m 47s):
By the way, that's also going through the predicate for why Joe Biden is not going to debate him. Joe Biden will not debate Donald Trump. Just wait for it. It's going to happen. Bank on it. Put the, put the, honestly like, take that bet, put it in the bank right now. Lock it in Meanwhile on the legal front. Donald Trump is facing some pretty dire legal peril. Apparently some of his co-defendants are starting to turn on him according to Politico, as his four criminal cases march toward trial. Some of his AIDS allies and co-defendants are pointing at the former president in court documents and hearings. Lawyers for people in Trump's orbit are starting to reveal glimmers of a tried and true strategy. In cases with many defendants portray yourself as a hapless pawn while piling blame on the apparent kingpin. Then they go ahead and quote Michael Cohen, which again, not a misinformation when you quote Michael Cohen, but Michael Cohen is a convicted liar.

2 (26m 29s):
I, I should point out at this, at this point, but it does happen to be the case that there are a bunch of people surrounding Donald Trump who have started making motions like they might turn on Trump last week. Trump's former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows signals his defense is likely to include, include blaming the former president as the primary driver of the effort. By the way, would not be surprising to me if Walt NTA did the same thing. Walt NTA is the aide in the, in the classified documents case who was moving around giant boxes of classified documents at Donald Trump's behest. Apparently Trump actually put it out on truth social that Wal NTA never would've done that. He never would've moved. Like if he had known there were classified documents in the boxes, he never would've moved them. Which of course suggests that if there were classified documents in the boxes, Wal NATA is to blame.

2 (27m 9s):
Again. I'm not sure what Trump's strategy there is with regard to the people who actually have to stand up for him in order for him to escape criminal liability. Here during a hearing in Atlanta, a defense attorney for Meadows called attention to Trump's prominent role. And what is certainly be a crucial element of the prosecutor's case there. That infamous January 2nd, 2021 phone call in which Trump demanded that Georgia's Secretary of State, Brad Raff Asperger, a Republican find enough votes to declare Trump the winner. It's a strategy that could sharpen as the Georgia case moves closer to a jury. And again, it would not be a giant shock. This, this is one of the risks of Donald Trump not paying the legal bills for all of his aides. If you are a Donald Trump aide, if you're somebody who worked with Donald Trump and he's not paying your legal bills and you now face jail time while Trump is out there defending himself, I don't know, do you wanna spend the next 10 years in jail?

2 (27m 52s):
Well, Donald Trump blames you for all of your problems. John Al Trump's attorney in the federal election case signals recently, he intends to file a sweeping immunity claim to attempt to derail charges. Many of the defendants in Georgia have already begun maneuvering for individual advantage. Prosecutors are also raising question about funding that Trump political committees are providing for defendants as well. So, you know, again, things are gonna get messy for Trump before they're not gonna get messy for Trump. But with all of that said, is Trump ineligible for the ballot? O Of course not. Meanwhile Joe Biden continues to run an unbelievably weak race. Basically this entire 2024 race is the meme from predator. you know, the, the bicep flexing hand gripping meme where the two arms gripping, where both sides are.

2 (28m 34s):
Like what do they, what do Democrats and Republicans agree on? There's no way we're gonna lose to that guy for Democrats. That guy is Trump. No way we lose him for Republicans. It's no way we're gonna lose to Joe Biden. Joe Biden's poll numbers continue to be absolutely crap. CNN's Breonna Keeler, she says, you know, he keeps trying to say the, the economy's good and nobody actually believes him

11 (28m 53s):
Yet. Not everybody is sold on Biden's plan. In fact, he is struggling to convince voters that his administration has been good for the economy. A new poll from the Wall Street Journal finds 58% of voters say the economy has gotten worse over the past two years. Just 28% say it's gotten better. Which is why today President Biden tried to hammer home the point that he is better for jobs than his predecessor and potential 2024 competitor.

2 (29m 20s):
You know, what I'll tell you is not a winning strategy in politics. If everybody feels really bad about a thing, stop telling them that they're wrong to feel bad about the thing. Now that may be the truth. I mean, there are many cases in life or somebody feels bad about a thing and they really should not feel bad about the thing. But as a political strategy, when you know, 65% of the American people are like, the economy stinks for me and Jordan's like, that's just 'cause you don't understand the economy. I boom, I'm middle class Joe. It turns out that people don't buy that line very much, and yet that's the line they're using. Here's the White House as Jared Bernstein of the Council of Economic Advisors being like, people are wrong and the economy's amazing. It's your fault if you're mad.

12 (29m 56s):
Now look, my point is that you can barely get Americans, 80% of Americans to agree on anything. And here they are line after line, agreeing about the importance of the components of of omics. So I think it's inaccurate nar a, an inaccurate narrative to declare that somehow omics isn't working or that it's not favorably received by people when you drill down into what it actually is.

2 (30m 23s):
Well, no, actually the stuff that you're polling is like, would you like if the government spent money on X? It turns out that everybody likes when the government spends money on X because people think the government makes its own money. But you know what people don't like. Would you like the government to take money from you and spend it on X? Then all the numbers go. The same thing happens to be true when it comes to, you know, the life that people are living right now where they've experienced wage to inflation actual declines over the course of the last couple of years in very significant ways. Everyday things are costing much, much more money. The Washington Post, in fact, has a piece today talking about auto insurance costs that have sorted across the United States. Like these are real world problems people are having and a lot of it has to do with inflation.

2 (31m 2s):
Premiums according to the Washington Post, have kept climbing even as other types of inflation have cooled. According to the Bureau of labor statistics, car insurance for us drivers in July was 16% more expensive than in July, 2022, 70% more expensive than in 2013. Frank Palmer, the chief insurance officer at Root Insurance says, car repair costs, body shop wages used car prices have all had significant increases. The entire industry has had to raise rates to keep up with these trends. Motor vehicle maintenance costs are up 13% from July of last year alone. If your car breaks down right now, it costs you an absolute fricking fortune to fix the thing. David Whittle, a mechanic at Metro Motor says it's more expensive to diagnose newer vehicles. The parts aren't a whole lot more expensive, but the frequency of repair on them is more than it used to be.

2 (31m 42s):
If an airbag goes off, that's thousands of dollars. A new car might have eight airbags in it. This is also an attempt by insurers to make up for big payouts, driven by floods in natural disasters, which ensures categorize as catastrophe losses as well. And there's no escape from the higher premiums because again, when it comes to car insurance, you are mandated to get your car insurance or you cannot drive on the public roads. All of this people are attributing to Biden's economy, which makes sense because even as all of this is going on, Joe Biden is spilling billions of dollars, hundreds of billions of dollars into green boondoggles as the Wall Street Journal points out. According to our report, late last month by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, large offshore wind developers are asking for an average 48% price adjustments in their contracts to cover rising costs.

2 (32m 27s):
The Alliance for Clean Energy New York is requesting an average 64% price increase on 86 solar and wind projects. The I R A, which is the Inflation Reduction Act, which has nothing to do with with inflation reduction, includes federal tax credits that can offset 50% of a project's cost. But renewable developers say their costs are increasing faster than inflation and the projects won't be economically viable and will be unable to proceed to construction and operation under their existing pricing. So again, the way that's gonna be solved you would imagine is by the federal government coming in and spending an awful lot of money or by energy production coming to a screeching halt. Joe Biden, again, really a weak candidate, but there are a couple things that Biden has going in his favor.

2 (33m 9s):
Thing number one, that Biden has going in his favor. He's absolutely stone dead boring. He's absolutely boring. Even, you know, I can, I can tell, I can look at our numbers Every time I mention Joe Biden, everybody who is watching or listening to this show immediately goes into a coma. It's like a man is, if you say Beetlejuice three times, then he appears. And if you say Biden three times, cars fly off freeways all over the United States as the drivers go comatose, their foot hits the the steering, their foot hits the gas and the steering wheel careens to the right mass carnage. Every time you've mentioned Joe Biden, just because people go narcoleptic the minute you mention the guy, he's old, he's boring and that old and boring is a real asset for him. I've been saying this since 2015, by the way, that that Joe Biden, if he had run in 2016, would've been a formidable candidate because he's boring.

2 (33m 54s):
The same thing is true in 2020. He literally didn't run a campaign. His campaign involves him being dead. Now his campaign involves him being double dead. How can you tell? Because again, all the metrics say so for example, no one wants to buy a book about Joe Biden. According to Politico N B C News's, Jonathan Allen went on a multi-stop national tour when he co-wrote a book on how Hillary Clinton lost to Donald Trump during the 2016 campaign. Shattered inside Hillary Clinton's Doom campaign sold more than 125,000 copies. But for the Pandemic era book that he wrote on Joe Biden a didn't even get, get the satisfaction of seeing a copy in stores. He didn't go on a tour. Lucky how Joe Biden barely won the presidency, never made the New York Times best seller list. It has sold fewer than 10,000 copies. That is not a lot of copies folks.

2 (34m 35s):
The Biden has been the Biden era, according to political, has been a bust for the book market. That's not just the case for mainstream journalists accustomed to chronicling the presidency in book form. Conservative readers aren't all that interested in reading hundreds of pages about a president they think is senile. Eric Nelson, my former editor over at Harper Collins, really good editor, he said, Biden never does anything interesting. The Hunter Biden stuff has done pretty well because he's appropriately interesting. But Hunter isn't the president if your nickname is sleepy Joe. You have to kind of simultaneously say this person is ruining everything and also is supremely evil, but also he's inept. And that's sort of a challenging combination. Added one major conservative publisher and other books about the Bidens have been doing terrible business. And some of these books, by the way, are very good. I've mentioned before Politico is Ben Schreck Inger and his book, the Biden's Inside the first family's 50 year rise to Power, it sold less than 5,000 copies.

2 (35m 19s):
That's as opposed to Michael Wolf's garbage book about Donald Trump Fire in Fury, which sold hundred almost a million copies or Woodward's book peril about Trump that sold 400,000 copies. And the the the great the great irony of of Joe Biden is that his boredom and his and his senility is blocking out the fact that he's unbelievably radical and bad at his job. His advantage continues to be that he's so much less interesting than Donald Trump. In just one second we'll get into what that's hiding. And it turns out it's hiding some really unbelievably bad policy.

My Patriot Supply (35m 50s):
first, in a world filled with uncertainties, it's crucial to be ready for whatever comes your way. Whether we're talking about a natural disaster or a sudden emergency or unforeseen circumstances, having a reliable food storage system can provide you with peace of mind and the assurance you and your loved ones will be taken care of. Right now, My Patriot Supply is offering 200 bucks off a three month food supply to help you stay prepared for anything. Head over to prepare with Ben dot com. Grab this special price before it ends. Your three month emergency food supply provides over 2000 calories every day for optimal strength and energy In stressful situations, you can enjoy a wide variety of My, Patriot Supply. You can customize your supply. They offer an ultimate kit, mega protein kit with real meat, even a gluten-free kit. The best part, each meal is delicious. They have a shelf life of up to 25 years. So you buy it, you put it in your closet, and then an emergency happens. You're like, oh God, I don't have food in the house. And then you realize, oh yeah, you do. 'cause you thought ahead. Don't wait for disaster to strike before taking action. Invest in your safety and wellbeing. Secure your food storage today. Go to prepare with Ben dot com. Get 200 bucks off your three month emergency food supply. Again, prepare with Ben dot com right now. That's prepare with Ben dot com right now. Go check it out.

12 (36m 52s):
Also, we have a huge offer coming up for all Daily Wire members early access to a first look at the highly anticipated 10 part original series starring Candace Owens Convicting A Murderer early access to view the series as September 7th, only on Daily Wire Plus, if you remember Making a Murder, that was a big Netflix documentary about Stephen Avery, which sort of portrayed him as a victim of corrupt law enforcement. Candace blows that narrative wide open and he blows it wide open. Here's a little bit of the preview

13 (37m 15s):
Coming up. I'm Convicting A Murderer. Part

14 (37m 17s):
Of me don't wanna believe that he did this. The

15 (37m 20s):
Blood that was under that back area was indicative of the head wound.

16 (37m 23s):
My brother likes to push a lot of people around. I don't give

17 (37m 27s):
A fuck about anything. I ain't gotta listen to nobody.

13 (37m 30s):
How were these filmmakers able to convince so many people and the man like Steven Avery is innocent?

18 (37m 35s):
How many times did he stab her

19 (37m 39s):
Once

18 (37m 40s):
And show me where? Right here

20 (37m 42s):
They gave him power. They're

21 (37m 44s):
Trying to get everything on me that they can. It's

20 (37m 45s):
Not good for an Avery to have power.

21 (37m 48s):
I told you all along, keep your fucking mouth shot. That can hurt Steven.

22 (37m 52s):
I'm not in the life for him no more. I can't do it.

13 (37m 55s):
Watch Convicting A Murderer a new 10 part series on Daily Wire plus

2 (38m 0s):
The teaser's. Only the beginning. I mean, honestly, the series is fantastic. Go check it out right now. Daily Wire Plus, if you're your DailyWire Plus member, you can watch Convicting A Murderer early September 7th. It's free to watch for members. No reason to miss it. The official premier for Convicting murder takes place on X that's formerly known as Twitter. On September 8th, 9:00 PM Eastern Candace will be live chatting with special guests at the X Event at 5:00 PM Make sure you head on over to the X Base to join that conversation. Full series available only on Daily Wire plus head on over to Daily Wire dot com slash subscribe to join us. Use Code Truth for 25% off your DailyWire Plus subscription. Don't miss out, subscribe today. Okay, Meanwhile. Okay, so because Joe Biden is so unbelievably boring and also 'cause he won't talk to the media and also 'cause he lies a lot and also 'cause the media have, you know, a full investment in pretending that he's not doing any of those things, they simply don't cover all that much when full scale disasters happen on his watch.

2 (38m 47s):
How do you know a full scale disasters happening on his watch? 'cause his own party is now attacking him on immigration. According to Axios, tensions between the Biden administration and local Democrats are coming to a head. As shelters around the country overflow and thousands of immigrants arrive in major cities. President Biden is stuck between growing calls to help the Democratic controlled cities. The politics of the vulnerable issue and what the administration views as legal handcuffs prohibiting much action in cities like New York, Boston, and Chicago. A humanitarian crisis for people hoping for new lives in the United States has become desperate. Business leaders and lawmakers at various levels of government are demanding the administration do more to help accommodate migrants. They're frustrated by what they say is Biden's lack of response. Senator Dick Durbin, who's a very strong ally to, to Biden says quote, I wrote him in May, it's been four months I to find out what's going on.

2 (39m 30s):
I mean, this is pretty amazing stuff. You, you've seen Mayor Eric Adams of New York City and New York Governor Kathy Hoel, publicly feuding with Adams demanding the rest of the state receive migrants and Hoel being like, nah, it's Biden's fault. Governor Mil, Phil Murphy of New Jersey shot down the Biden administration's reported idea of relocating migrants to Atlantic City International Airport. As per Politico, federal officials view many of the demands as political posturing, not realistic solutions because they all face legal or practical challenges. Now here's the thing, nobody ever considers the possibility maybe you should work on closing the border because that would, you know, run up against all of the favored left Wing Nostrums about give your tired, your poor yearning, masses desiring freedom and all of this.

2 (40m 13s):
Then the reality hits and they're like, oh my God, what do you do with all these people? I'll tell you what Massachusetts is doing. Massachusetts officials overwhelmed by arriving migrants, have now activated the National Guard as they scramble for more housing. Governor Mara Healy mobilized 250 members of the Massachusetts at Natural Guard on Thursday National Guard to help transport the latest wave of asylum seekers, which is again, astonishing. Massachusetts has nowhere near enough housing or resources currently available to accommodate the influx. So bad policy running directly up against reality. Remember that time when all the Democrats were shouting about why, why is Texas whining so much? They have hundreds of thousands of people arriving every month. Why are they whining so much when a tiny town like Brownsville, Texas just gets overwhelmed?

2 (40m 56s):
How dare they? Why are they so racist? That's getting shipped to Massachusetts. They're like, call the National Guard. We need to do something about this protestors claim. The state has prioritized the need of migrants over the need of its own homeless residents, including veterans. Many at a rally were flashing signs that read Vets and Cape Homeless first. Apparently there are about 6,000 families, more than 20,000 people currently residing in Massachusetts state shelters according to officials. Amazing, amazing stuff. All of this flying well under the, I mean, remember Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez the greatest and, and most wondrous, so fresh sofa, fresh faced mc face, fresh Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Congress person from Twitch.

2 (41m 36s):
She, she, she does stuff with the Instant Pot and then she also does social media. You remember she went down to the border while Donald Trump was president and fake cried in an empty parking lot directly to camera. You remember that? Now she's, she's not doing any of those things I noticed, which is weird because I thought that she was truly committed to this, to this bit. I mean, it's a real bit by the way, eh, but apparently the, the commitment ended when the stress began. I love this. This is really funny. She was, she did an interview at the New York Times where the New York Times asked her, speaking of our closest neighbors, I wanna talk about immigration under Joe Biden. More asylum seekers are being held in private detention centers than under Trump. Families are still being separated. The Biden administration kept Trump era policies that sped up deportations and made it harder for legitimate claimants to come to the us.

2 (42m 18s):
So what grade do you give the administration on immigration? And she answered. Immigration is like arguably this administration's weakest issue. It's one area where our policy is dictated by politics, arguably more so than any other. This is where she starts saying arguably a lot because she doesn't know what she's talking about. There are very clear like recommendations and suggestions we made to the administration to spread relief on this issue. It's my belief, some of the hesitation around this has to do with the fear of just being seen as approving or providing permission structures or really just the Republican narratives that have surrounded immigration. Okay? That is a lot of verbiage. That means nothing. Nothing. What if I just throw in a phrase like permission structures me. We also need to examine the root causes of migration and address this problem doesn't start at our border.

2 (42m 59s):
It starts with that foreign policy. And the New York Times reporter says, Why, haven't you used your considerable clout as a Latino leader to visit the border and highlight the ongoing issues there? And she says, well, this is something we're like actively planning on. I've done tours of our New York area facilities like, well, so I noticed where you weren't the border. I noticed it. It's it's so funny. Shit. This is so funny. The, the New York Times reporter to their credit says, quote, under the Trump administration, you did make the southern border an issue. She said, yes. And again, I will be visiting the border when like, like Joe Biden is gonna be visiting East Palestinian, Ohio. 'cause I, I noticed that's a thing that you're not doing is, is just something that I noticed.

2 (43m 41s):
Okay. Meanwhile China continues to be on the, on the edge of a, of an economic cataclysm. According to the New York Times, China's biggest home builder is now reeling as the economy slows. When Country Garden, the biggest developer in China's increasingly troubled real estate sector, published its annual report in April, the cover design Exuded Hope, a Phoenix spreading its Wings. That was wishful thinking. Shortly after the reports released, China's nascent economic recovery lost steam and already sluggish real estate markets started to collapse at Country Garden. Pre-sales of unfinished apartments, a crucial indicator of future revenue plunge more than 50% in June and July, twice the rate of decline in the preceding five months for the past three years as dozens of major property developers defaulted after years of excessive borrowing.

2 (44m 23s):
Country Garden was an outlier. Last month it missed two interest payments signaling that it too was at risk of financial collapse with $187 billion in debt. That is a lot of debt, folks. That is a lot of debt. Country Garden has staved off an immediate crash. It told creditors and made the interest payment of $22.5 million within the Grace period before default On Friday, the company won a last minute approval from creditors to postpone repayment of $537 million. It has been a dramatic fall for Country Garden. The company's improbable rise from regional home builder to a nationwide behemoth tracked China's own media meteoric ascent. Now it's collapsed, reflects the speed and severity of the country's real estate meltdown, which threatens to derail the broader economy.

2 (45m 3s):
By the way, you know why this happened. The reason that this happened in China is because they have one metric for success, and that is G D P G D P is a measure of final end use sales. It can be jogged by borrowing and spending. If the government borrows and spends on empty apartment buildings to developers like Country Garden, well that is counted as G D P growth. It doesn't matter then nobody's actually buying those apartments. It can just continue to jack up the G D P statistics by borrowing and spending and borrowing and there's only one problem. At a certain point the carousel stopped. The same thing is true in the United States, which is why it is so puzzling and stupid that the United States continues to follow China down the primrose path On this one, it really is kind of an amazing thing. Okay, time for some things I like and then some things that I hate.

2 (45m 44s):
So things that I like today. So Bill Maher was on with Joe Rogan, and again, you know, I'm friendly with Bill, friendly with Joe. Bill used to be a mainstream left winger. He's a mainstream liberal, mainstream Democrat. And now as people on the Twitters are saying, he sounds like me. And that's not because I have moved and realizing Mar has moved, it's because everybody else who used to consider themselves on the left has moved so radically to the left, that Mar got left behind. So here for example, is Bill Maher speaking about woke culture got ripped up for this, but of course he's exactly right here he was.

23 (46m 19s):
You can be woke with all the nonsense that that now implies. But don't say that somehow it's an extension of liberalism, right? Because it's most often actually an undoing of liberalism. I have always believed as liberals do, for example, in a colorblind society that the goal is to not see race at all anywhere for any reason. Yes, that's what liberals always believed all the way through Obama going back Kennedy, everybody, Martin Luther King, that's not what the woke believed. They believe race is first and foremost, the thing you should always see everywhere, which I find interesting because that used to be the position of the Ku Klux Klan that we see race first and foremost everywhere.

23 (47m 6s):
Yeah. So again, you can have that position, but don't say that's a liberal position. You're doing something very different.

2 (47m 15s):
Correct. He got ripped up for this. How dare he? Now of course he wasn't saying the b l m is doing the same sort of stuff as the Kuku Klux Klan. He was saying the ideology that race is the great differentiator and that's the first thing you should notice about a person. He's saying that's bad. Which again, I thought you like, when I grew up, that was just what everybody got taught. I, I'm confused. Like I grew up in the nineties isn't that long ago. And I remember I went public school and this was what you were taught and it was considered a good thing. And all of a sudden it's the reverse. Ma also slammed Black Lives Matter, pointing out it's only certain black lives that matter to b l m

23 (47m 47s):
In Minnesota, for example, I think it was Minneapolis after the George Floyd murder and the riots, I think there was a movement to disband a lot of the police. And they did. I think a lot of the police were let go or somehow the police force was, was a lesser force than it was. And what happened was, of course, crime went up in certain areas and a lot of the officers who had been fired or let go or quit or for whatever reason, they weren't on the force anymore, they were hired as private security by who? The rich people who could afford to do it.

23 (48m 30s):
So their neighborhood stayed safe. Ugh. So that wasn't exactly I thought a victory for liberalism. Murders have been happening way outta control in Chicago, among the African-American community for far too long and not really reported in the same, in the way that they should be. Right? It, it's amazing how black lives don't seem to matter when they're taken by black lives, right? But, but I mean now Chicago, my friends who live there say it's not safe anywhere. Yeah, it's very sketchy. Very sketchy. And that's Chicago.

2 (49m 6s):
Okay. See, he's saying reasonable things. The left is not, this is why again, the first party that shows that it can be sane and rational is gonna win broad swaths of the electorate. Like ma speaking for pretty much everyone at this point on this, like left, right? Like if you're in reasonable categories, you agree with Bill Maher on this stuff, the left is ignoring it and the right is too busy playing with itself over here on other issues that, that it's, it's like these, these are like right there for the picking. Just say the things, but, but apparently that, that would be too good for the United States right now. Okay, time for a quick thing that I hate. Okay, so apparently Austin police are now urging robbery victims not to call 9 1 1. That seems bad.

2 (49m 47s):
According to Fox News. Austin Police and Texas are asking residents to call 3 1 1 if they get robbed near an A T m as the department struggles amid an increase in urban crime. 3 1 1 is a number usually used for non-emergency requests. 9 1 1 is like I'm being robbed. 3 0 1 is like, yeah, somebody robbed me three hours ago, what can I do about that? So apparently they now don't want you to call 9 1 1 even if you're being robbed like right this second because they're just overwhelmed. Austin Police department wrote quote, even if you're cautious and follow all safety advice, you may still become the unfortunate victim of robbery. So you know what your next steps should be. Make a police report, provide as much information as possible so we can recover your property quickly and safely.

2 (50m 28s):
Compared to 2020, Austin has now had a 77% increase in auto thefts, an 18% increase in aggravated assault and a 30% increase in murder. So yeah, it, it turns out that left-wing governance, it has some serious bad cause. Alright guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We're gonna be deconstructing a little bit of culture with Miley Cyrus. If you're not a member, become member Use code Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.