Instagram (1s):
Parents should have a say in which apps are right for their teens. That's why Instagram wants to work with Congress to require parental approval wherever teens under 16 download apps. Learn more at instagram.com/parental approval.

1 (16s):
So. yesterday there was a big announcement from the House Intelligence Committee. The House Intelligence committee chair went on X and tweeted out a statement suggesting that there was a serious national security threat. the American public had to be made aware of And. this freaked everybody out because when you make vague national security related threats and you suggest that they are serious enough that they need to be declassified, everybody starts to have a little bit of palpitations. Well, as it turns out what exactly was happening here, it appears that there is intelligence suggesting that Russia is going to attempt to put Nukes in space, Nukes in space. So according to cnn.com, the US has new intelligence on Russian military capabilities related to its efforts to deploy a nuclear anti satellite system in space.

1 (58s):
According to multiple sources familiar with the intelligence. the intelligence was briefed to Congress and key US allies. Some lawmakers say it is serious enough, it should be declassified and made public. Apparently it's not an immediate threat. The Russians haven't actually done it yet. The system is under development. It is not yet in orbit and it's not even clear how far the technology has progressed according to one of those officials. So, there are a few issues that we need to cover here. One is what would it mean if Russia actually were to do this? Second is, why are we finding out about this now? Not when you know it's actually about to happen or when it has happened. There's something a little bit funny about that politically speaking. So let's talk about what exactly this would mean. First, it means that presumably there would be a serious threat to America's satellite communications technology, all of our satellite technology period.

1 (1m 46s):
So if you were to detonate a nuke in space, it does not exactly have the same ramifications as if you detonate a nuclear weapon at high altitude. For example, if you detonate a nuclear weapon at high altitude, that comes with the possible threat of EMP, right? Electromagnetic pulses, which could take out for all of your electronics. You've seen some of the kind of horror movies about that possibility. If you detonate a nuclear weapon close to the ground, obviously you devastate the immediate area around the blast. And then there are also radiation clouds that travel and kill lots of people. If you detonate in space, one of the things about a nuclear weapon is that a nuclear weapon feeds on the air around it. Obviously the explosion requires oxygen in order for it to continue expanding.

1 (2m 26s):
So if you do it in a vacuum, if you do it in space, it doesn't have quite the same impact. Effectively what you do is you blast out radiation and that radiation is going to significantly damage or degrade pretty much all of the satellites within the immediate orbit. And it is going to create a sort of perennial hotspot in that place where satellites that pass through it are going to be significantly damaged. There's a good piece by Lieutenant Colonel Tony Vincent, who's an active duty scientist in the US Air Force, as well as the Director of advanced Physics courses at the Air Force Academy. And he wrote this piece back in September of 2022 talking about what exactly would happen if you detonated a nuclear weapon in space. And what he says is that the threat of nuclear explosions in space is marginalized because the potency of their effects is not widely known and the likelihood of nuclear attack in space is assumed to be negligible.

1 (3m 11s):
But that assumption is wrong. What he says is that effectively speaking, what would happen is nuking the economy. It would really be more of an economic attack than say a physical attack killing millions of people. For example. So what he writes is he says A nuclear explosion in space disproportionately hurts the United States as the largest single investor in space capabilities. The United States nets almost $200 billion per year of real gross output from its space access. Even though military satellites are designed to withstand a harsher charged particle environment, radiation hardening is not a magic cloak of invincibility. Military space assets will be degraded over time from the artificially amped radiation belt created from the nuclear detonation. Meanwhile, commercial satellites in low earth orbit will be the first to fail from continually passing through these particle hotspots.

1 (3m 54s):
Most satellites with line of sight to the nuclear detonation would be destroyed from the resulting X-rays. Military space capabilities for command and control along with reconnaissance assets may still function for a period following the detonation, but the economic impact of degraded informational space products will be immediate. So in other words, the the things that are not shielded up, they're gonna get fried almost immediately. They'll degrade really fast and that'll have pretty significant economic impact. Now does that mean that the United States would then be in World War III nuclear war? Because what we're not talking about here is the Russians putting presumably nuclear weapons up there in order to fire a from space at the United States For example, you're talking about them putting a nuclear weapon up there in order to do economic damage that your state under significant pressure like Russia is economically speaking or in terms of security.

1 (4m 39s):
And so your best indirect approach to really escalate things without killing a lot of people, because if they kill a lot of people, then the United States really will have to unleash its war machine against the Russians, which we have not done so far, despite all foolishness to the contrary, the United States has yet to unleash its actual war machine against Russia. If it had, we would not be talking about war in Ukraine anymore. We'd be talking about something far larger. And let's be real about this. The United States military capacity put aside nuclear weapons. This is why mutually assured destruction exists. The US military capacity is much larger than that of the Russians. We're not talking about any of that right now. What we are talking about is if the Russians were to actually fire a nuke at the United States, that is not the same thing as nuking a bunch of satellites in space, which would do economic damage and would presumably come along with an escalation of American efforts against Russia short of nuclear weapons.

1 (5m 26s):
So the, the real question here is when you look at this capability, yeah, is that a risk? Of course, that's a risk. Is that something that the US military should game out a hundred percent? Should we try to figure out ways of hardening our satellites or replacing them with new satellites that are significantly more hardened to this risk? Sure, but is this the kind of serious national security threat that requires everybody to go on panic mode for a full day yesterday where everybody is thinking, oh my God, I need my bunker. Where's my bunker So I need to do my my drop and and tuck exercises from the 1950s, get under my desk and wait for the nuclear explosion? Well, no, that's not what this threat means kind of at all. Which raises the other question, which is exactly why was this made into a giant threat?

1 (6m 10s):
And there are a lot of people who are quite suspicious of why this was made into a giant threat. I'm among them. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Pure Talk (6m 18s):
First, Pure Talk believes in American values and that free should mean you know, like free. So when you switch to Pure Talk today, you'll Get a FREE Samsung five G smartphone. There's no four line requirement, no activation fee, just a free Samsung that's built to last with a rugged screen, quick charging battery and top tier data security qualifying plans start just 35 bucks a month for unlimited talk text, 15 gigs of data and a mobile hotspot. Pure Talk gives you phenomenal coverage on America's most dependable 5G network. It's the same coverage you know and love, but for half the price of the other guys, the average family saves almost a thousand dollars a year. So I challenge you to choose a company that actually doesn't hate your guts and shares your values. Let Pure talk's expert US customer service team help you make the switch today. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro to claim your eligibility for your free brand new Samsung five G smartphone and start saving on wireless today. Again, go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro to switch to my cell phone company. I've been using 'em for years. They're fantastic. You'll love them as well. But at Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro and claim your eligibility on that free brand new Samsung five G smartphone start saving.

1 (7m 19s):
So as folks know, I have a sympathy for the idea of giving more aid to Ukraine. I don't think that amount of aid has to be $60 billion. don don't think that that that bill that has been put forward by the Senate is particularly wonderful Bill. It includes $10 billion of aid to the Gaza Strip, which is filled with people who presumably would be in positions of administration who are, who are terrorists. There's a lot that's wrong with that bill, but as a general proposition, I don't believe that the United States has an interest in allowing Russia to simply walk into Kyiv and take over the entirety of Ukraine. I think that has significant negative geopolitical ramifications for the United, States and American citizens. With that said, scaring the American people into green lighting an aid package by releasing information about a serious national security threat that lives in Canada.

1 (8m 3s):
But no, you can't meet her that that doesn't seem like a great tactic to get people in your corner. In fact, it's probably gonna alienate more people than it draws according to CNN when members of Congress downplayed the immediacy of the threat. An anti-satellite weapon placed in orbit around the earth would pose significant danger to US nuclear command and control satellites. According to Hans Christensen, director of the Nuclear Information Project at the Federation of American Scientists earlier on Wednesday, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee Republican Mike Turner of Ohio ignited a firestorm on Capitol Hill when he issued that cryptic statement announcing that the panel had information concerning a national, a serious national security threat. And when this, when this notice went out, by the way I was watching and my immediate mentality went to, okay, is there like an immediate terror threat in the United States that we need to know about?

1 (8m 48s):
Is there about to be a major secondary attack by the Russians on say a Baltic state? Like what? What are we talking about here? And then it turns out that what they're talking about about is the possibility of a new Russian military capability that would do economic damage to the United States, but would not actually launch us into World War iii. And I thought, well that seems a little bit overblown in terms of just leaking that out there to scare everybody within hours. The Republican, how speaker Mike Johnson attempted to tamp down the situation telling reporters quote, there is no cause for alarm. He said that he'd known about the intelligence since at least January. He said, we wanna assure everyone that steady hands are at the wheel. We're working on it and there is no need for alarm. Jim Hines, the committee's top Democrat, said in a statement, the classified intelligence product, the House Intelligence Committee called to the attention members last night is a significant one, but it is not in fact a cause for panic.

1 (9m 32s):
The National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, he said, you know, I can't say that Americans have nothing to worry about, but I'm not sure why everybody is sort of in panic mode.

2 (9m 41s):
Just a quick follow up, just to put this to rest. Obviously the House intelligence chair speaking out about a imminent or he doesn't say imminent serious national security threat, the lack of your ability to say anything has the potential to raise distress for some Americans. In the simplest of terms, can you tell Americans that there's nothing they have to worry about right now in terms of what he describes as a national security threat?

3 (10m 3s):
Look, I think in a way that question, it is impossible to answer with a straight yes, right? Because Americans understand that there are a range of threats and challenges in the world that we're dealing with every single day. And those threats and challenges range from terrorism to state actors. And we have to contend with them and we have to contend them with them in a way where we ensure the ultimate security of the American people.

1 (10m 32s):
Okay? So again, when, when I, when I see, you know, this sort of alarmism emerging that makes me less likely to support a foreign aid bill. You know, I, again, where I in Congress, I'm not sure how I would vote on this foreign aid bill. I'd probably vote no based on the size and scope of it. And I'd wanna see the underlying information. But even where I inclined to vote for the foreign aid bill, I'd now be less inclined to vote for the foreign aid bill. 'cause don don't like pressure tactics like this. Apparently, according to Politico, it's possible that Turner was attempting to raise alarms about Russia's advancements in space as a way of underscoring the need for lawmakers to approve additional aid to Ukraine. The Senate passed the supplemental bill including $60 billion in aid for Kyiv and is currently under review by the House. Now, meanwhile, the White House is trying to play a bit of a different game with regard to this foreign aid bill.

1 (11m 15s):
So they're not negotiating, not at all. In fact, Joe Biden said yesterday that he has no plans to meet with the Speaker of the house, which is weird 'cause if you wanted to get something done on foreign aid, presumably you'd want to meet with the person with whom you are going to have to negotiate to get that done. Corin Shaere said, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Joe Biden isn't meeting with him.

4 (11m 32s):
Speaker Johnson has suggested that he needs a one-on-one meeting with President Biden. Given that Johnson has said he doesn't feel rushed on foreign aid, a would that one-on-one meeting help?

5 (11m 46s):
I mean, look, and I appreciate the question, Josh, but the president met with, met with obviously congressional leadership less than a month ago, just less than a month ago. And he made really clear how important it was to get that bipartisan negotiated legislation coming out of the Senate, how important it was to get that, to move that forward.

1 (12m 8s):
Okay, so why won't he meet with Johnson then if he, if he thinks that it's really important, why not try to convince Johnson? I mean, first of all, it'd be good politics, it'd be good optics, right? He could come out and he could say, listen, I spoke with Speaker Johnson and I, he doesn't have a coherent defense of his. Like, it's very weird that Biden won't speak to him. The reason that Biden won't speak to him is because he thinks for some odd reason that he's winning this thing in the, in the court of public opinion and or he knows that the headline coming out of any meeting between Biden and Johnson is likely to be about his senility, not about Johnson's positions on this particular issue. Meanwhile, the Biden administration is just trying to ramp up the pressure from the outside, suggesting that if you wanted to pair back the bill or if you had amendments to the bill, or if you wanted to pass a slightly different version of the bill, it strips out certain things and adds other things that this would somehow be a giant failure.

1 (12m 52s):
John Kirby, who is the national security spokesperson for the White House, he says, it's time for Mike Johnson to show some leadership and simply put up the bill for a vote. But that's not actually Johnson's job. He doesn't have to do that, obviously he's speaker of the house.

6 (13m 4s):
Don don't think it's any secret. Some Republicans on the house have acknowledged it. If this bill got to the floor, there's there's more than 218 votes. It just needs to be put on the floor. Have you guys worked through, you know, plan Bs or other ways to try and get around a speaker who said, unequivocally this isn't happening.

7 (13m 21s):
It's not about getting around the speaker, Phil, it's about working. It's about working with him and through him, and he's gonna have to show some leadership here. Obviously, we're gonna keep our consultations and our conversations with conver Congress going, we're gonna, we're obviously gonna keep engaging them, but the speaker's got a choice to make here. This is, this is a moment for leadership. This is, as the president said, an inflection point. And it's, it's, you know, we gotta wait and see if this speaker's gonna be up to that moment.

1 (13m 46s):
So, you know, again, I I, I think that this is a bad tactic. If they actually wanna get the aid passed, what they should do is sit down with Johnson. He's the person they have to negotiate with. But again, I think a lot of this is grandstanding. Right now our political system is entirely broken because there's more incentive in both sides grandstanding than in actually getting things done. And that's true across the aisle pretty much everywhere because the sides hate each other so much that any sign that you wanna work with the other side on anything, even to get 80% of what you want is now treated as a sign of treason in some way. We had some more on this in just one second.

Food For The Poor (14m 17s):
First, during this new year, it's important to slow down and think about how it can lift up and help other people because of economic decline, high unemployment, skyrocketing food prices. Too many families have little or no access to food for their kids. Many businesses and inform economies like day labor and local markets have eliminated jobs or closed permanently, leaving a lot of people with no way to earn money. Local ministry partners, feeding centers, hospitals and schools are experiencing rising numbers of malnourished kids. But there is a way that we can help for over 40 years. Food For, The Poor has served communities throughout the Caribbean and Latin America through a network of trusted ministry partners and local churches. Food, For, The, Poor supplies, non-perishable food items and protein rich meals to kids and families suffering from hunger. With the help of their generous donors, they're able to provide food, housing, healthcare, education, fresh water, emergency relief, and a lot more. So how can you help? Thanks to a meal for meal match, a donation of 80 bucks can feed two children for an entire year. 160 bucks would feed four kids, 320 bucks would feed eight kids. Your generous gift today could change the course of a life Donate. Now text Plate to 51 5 5 5 or by visiting Food For The Poor dot org slash Shapiro. That's Plate to 5 1 5 5 5 or Food For The Poor dot org slash Shapiro.

1 (15m 24s):
So the Democrats are simply gonna demagogue this thing without sitting down and trying to see what they can get outta the Republicans. Corrine Jean Pierre, she is saying that Republicans are siding with Putin and Iran, which again, I listen, I wish that Republicans would articulate better their reasons for opposing the bill because you're seeing, as I've discussed on the show the past few days, a wide variety of rationales. You have Tom Cotton, who's extremely hawkish, extremely anti-Iran, extremely anti Putin, Tom Cotton, the Senator from Arkansas. And he has said that he's opposing the bill because of all the pork in it and because it provides aid to some places we don't want the aid going. And I agree with his rationales. And then you see some people who are making the argument that basically Ukraine doesn't deserve defense at all and Democrats are jumping onto that argument and then they're using that as a stand in for the entire Republican arguments.

1 (16m 5s):
The lack of unity in a message from Republicans about why they oppose the bill is actually giving an opening to Democrats to claim that Republicans oppose the bill because they actually like Vladimir Putin

5 (16m 15s):
House Republicans are still at it right now, citing with Donald Trump, Vladimir Putin and Tarran against our defense industrial base against nato, against Ukraine, against our interest in the Indo-Pacific.

1 (16m 29s):
Lack of clarity and messaging is not Republican's friend here, they have now offered a bunch of different rationales for why they oppose the bill and they really need to come around like one rationale. So originally the rationale is we oppose the bill because we want border control provisions in the bill. And then when the border control provisions that came outta the Senate were insufficient, they said, we don't want any border control provisions in the bill because Joe Biden has the authority to do what he wants right now. Okay, well if that was the argument in the first place, then why link it to border provisions in the bill and why not pass aversion in the house that already has border provisions in the bill so that people aren't kinda shooting in the dark? It feels like the Republicans in the house are moving around the goalpost a lot, just to be honest with you from the outside, if you're just somebody who's watching this casually, what it looks like is Republicans said, okay, we want some Ukraine, we're okay with some Ukraine aid.

1 (17m 15s):
We're good with Israel aid. We're Taiwan aid, but we're not gonna give all this money away until we secure our southern border. And so the Senate said, okay, fine, we're gonna put together this entire crap package, including border stuff. And then the Republicans asked, well, that's insufficient. And the Senate was like, well then we'll just strip out the border stuff and we'll do just the aid package alone. And then the Republicans are like, well, there's not border stuff in there. Okay, well if you're gonna do that, then you actually ought to do in the house is do what the house was designed to do, initiate the legislation, initiate the legislation and say if the Senate will not pass our version of the legislation, we're not signing anything else. Our version is better, their version is worse, do that. But it seems like Republicans can't really even get on board for that because of internal divisions over things like aid for Ukraine.

1 (17m 56s):
It turns out that Republicans don't have a unified position. Democrats do. Democrats have a unified position on pretty much all of these issues. Their unified position is as open borders as you can make them. Lots of aid to Ukraine. They actually are in favor of a to Israel, but they also want aid to Hamas. That's the actual Democrat unified position. Democrats are way better at this game than Republicans. Republicans are by and large a fragmentary group. It's a coalitional group. Democrats are pretty much down the line. You'll have an occasional person who's crazy like Rashida Lib, who no one can get on board, including Democrats. I mean, they'll still praise her and pretend that she's a diverse part of their coalition. While she literally voted yesterday, she voted present on a resolution to condemn Hamas for raping women.

1 (18m 36s):
That is what Rashida TB was doing yesterday. Here she was yesterday.

8 (18m 41s):
All acts of sexual violence are horrific. We should all be fighting to end it here at home and are all around the world. So while the resolution on the floor today rightfully denounces any sexual violence by Hamas, I'm disturbed that it completely ignores and erases any sexual violence and abuse committed by the Israeli forces against Palestinians, especially children. The UN and human

1 (19m 4s):
Rights, sexual violence and abuse committed against children, have

8 (19m 6s):
Raised alarms for years, but Congress what did nothing, never cared. We all have responsibility

1 (19m 11s):
Not, and she's a terror supporter, not sexual violence, but she, she's not. She's a ridiculous terror supporting horrific human being. Even Democrats look at Rashida lib for the most part and think that she's a crazy person, but they're much more unified just in terms of their governing strategy than Republicans are. And what that means is that because Republicans are unable to come up with a governing strategy because they can't actually unify over virtually any issues other than simply opposing what the left wants, there's a real problem that's I oppose with the left wants also. But I wanna unified Republican agenda on the table on each of these things. And I think there is an 80% consensus among Republicans, not the online Republicans, among Republicans generally for the following things, enough aid to Ukraine to prevent Russia from taking kyiv, allowing enough time for negotiated solution that freezes the lines in place to actually be reached and enough pressure on the Russians so that they don't feel that tomorrow they're gonna be able to run Kyiv if they just hold out long enough.

1 (20m 3s):
The way the Taliban held out long enough in Afghanistan then took the whole country. I think most Republicans are in favor of that. I think the vast majority of Republicans are in favor of a to Israel. I think the vast majority of Republicans are in favor of securing the border. So start with that and then put forward a bill like that and then force as much of that through as you can in the Senate. That would be the way to do it. But instead, Republicans seem to be saying things like, okay, here's what we want these things now go try and do that. And then somebody else tries to do it and they do it badly and their publicans saying, Nope, we're not gonna look at it. And then they say, we want something different. Okay, well what is the thing you want that is different? What is it that, so it cuts away at the actual seriousness of the real Republican agenda items. The Speaker of the House, Mike Johnson For example yesterday, he said, we're not gonna get jammed into passing this foreign aid bill that doesn't secure the border.

1 (20m 50s):
But it was many Republicans who were claiming that Joe Biden doesn't need any more legislation in order to secure the border me among them. By the way, he doesn't, he can't secure the border right now, given the laws that are on the books, you actually do not need further border legislation in order to ensure that the border is closed. Everyone knows this, including Republicans. So that's why it's always been a little bit weird to suggest that they're not going to pass a foreign aid package unless they get, like, again, there are a bunch of arguments against the foreign aid package. Some are actual fiscal arguments that are made by people like Thomas Massey or Rand Paul who suggest basically we should not do foreign aids to anyone. I, I take them a little more seriously than people who I think are fronting on that, who are perfectly fine with giant entitlement programs that completely bankrupt the US economy.

1 (21m 33s):
But they're very keen not to give foreign aid to Israel, For example. But there's certain people like Rand Paul, who's just a small government guy, wants to restructure entitlements and all the rest. And so his general perspective on this presumably is that we should not spend money in places we shouldn't spend money. Okay, that that, that's fine. And that's Dan, but that's not the actual position of the Republican caucus at this point, which has itself refused to restructure entitlements in any way, shape or form.

PreBorn! (21m 56s):
Did you know that a baby's heart begins to beat at just three weeks? At five weeks? It can be hurt on ultrasound. In some cases the heartbeat can be the baby's only defense in the womb, which is where PreBorn steps in. PreBorn rescues 200 babies every day from abortion simply by providing moms with free ultrasounds that allow her to hear her child's heartbeat and see their perfectly formed body in the womb. By six weeks, the baby's eyes are forming. By 10 weeks a baby's able to suck his or her thumb. PreBorn needs our help to save these precious souls for just 28 bucks. You could be the difference between the life or death of a baby. If you become a monthly sponsor, you'll receive stories and ultrasound pictures of the lives you helped to rescue. All gifts are tax deductible. A hundred percent of your gift donation goes towards saving babies to Donate. It's now pound two 50. Say keyword baby, that's pound two five zero baby. Or go to PreBorn dot com slash Ben. That's PreBorn dot com slash Ben. Go check them out right now. PreBorn dot com slash Ben is the best thing you're gonna do today or maybe ever dial pound two 50, say keyword baby, start saving children today.

1 (22m 50s):
Again, the confused messages coming outta the Republican party. It's one reason why despite the unpopularity of the Democratic party, Republicans are cruising for a bruising in November. I think people are whistling past the graveyard. I don't mean that Donald Trump is cruising for a bruising right now. He's set to win election over Joe Biden. If the election were held today, I'm talking about in the house, there's a better than average shot that Republicans lose the house in November because of their own incoherence and incompetence. Here's speaker Mike Johnson talking about the bill and talking about the border and all. But, but again, if you don't put forward your affirmative position, people start to think that it's just chaos, which it kind of is.

9 (23m 24s):
Last night the house voted to approve articles of impeachment against Secretary, mayor Orcas, desperate times call for desperate measures. We had to do that. He has abdicated his responsibility, he's breached the public trust and he's disregarded the laws. Congress has passed, but but much more has to be done, of course to secure the border. And what the Senate produced this week is silent on that issue. Senator McConnell and I have spoken about this in Frank Sessions. And let me be clear here again this morning, the Republican LED house will not be jammed or forced into passing a foreign aid bill that was opposed by most Republican senators and does nothing to secure our own border. It's time for Washington to start showing some love to Americans.

9 (24m 5s):
So on Valentine's Day, this is a good day to point this out. You need to listen to the American people and their needs and take action. And that's why house leadership will continue to govern with Americans interests at heart.

1 (24m 15s):
Okay, so pass some stuff. Really like pass some stuff. So For example, the house did pass a clean foreign aid bill to Israel, but only through committee. They didn't put it up for a full vote yet do that Force Democrats hand, like make Democrats say what they are for right now. Democrats are saying what Republicans are for. Why aren't Republicans make Democrats say what Democrats are for at this point? Because the truth is what Democrats are for at this point is basically opening up the borders. If you take a look at what they're now considering, apparently ICE has drafted plans to release thousands of immigrants and slash its capacity to hold detainees after the failure of the Senate border bill. So Democrats were not claiming that there was a shortage of resources at the border. Republicans were then when Republicans killed the bill, when Democrats are now claiming that they take Republicans claim seriously.

1 (24m 59s):
And now they're just going to release un mass people into the United States. So they're actually threatening American security because the Republicans wouldn't pass their border bill, which by the way should be a pretty good Republican talking point. So in other words, you won't secure the border and you're threat not to secure the border is that if we don't join you, you are going to further unsecure the border. Right? That that seems like a, a pretty good place for Republicans to come around. But again, it's all convoluted and discombobulated in terms of coordination at the top levels. There is a lack of congressional leadership and the congressional leadership that there is is incapable of getting its own party into line. And Democrats are way better at this than the Republicans. Period. End of story. According to the Washington Post, the bipartisan border bill Republican lawmakers opposed last week would've provided $6 billion in supplemental funding for ice enforcement operations.

1 (25m 45s):
The Bill's demise has led ice officials to begin circulating an internal proposal to save money by releasing thousands of detainees and cutting detention levels from 38,000 beds to 22,000 beds. The opposite of the enforcement increases Republicans say that they want. Now, again, if you're telling me that they can't find any money anywhere in that $7 trillion budget to maintain beds, by the way, those beds are not even full. They're releasing people right now into the interior after a very short period of time. That is an amazing blackmail attempt by the Democrats. They're trying to basically blackmail Republicans into going along with an open border and threatening them with an even more open border if they don't do it. I mean that, that's truly an amazing thing. And Republicans would be able to run on that if these issues were disaggregated, which they kind of should be.

1 (26m 27s):
I'm not in favor of omnibus packages. I've never been in favor of omnibus packages. I want each one of these measures passed on its own merits. Then we can decide whether the amount of aid to Ukraine is appropriate or whether it's not. Whether the amount of aid to Israel is appropriate or whether it's not. Whether the amount of aid to Taiwan is appropriate or what and and what should be done on the border. But instead we just aggregate this stuff and then we argue randomly over and then nothing gets done. And meanwhile the world goes on, the open border, goes on, the war in Ukraine, goes on the war in Gaza goes on. We get to more on this in just one second.

Tax Network USA (26m 56s):
First, are you struggling with back taxes or unfiled returns this year? The IRS is escalating collections by adding 20,000 new agents. Well that's great, except for it being terrible. Along with hiring thousands of new agents and field officers, the IRS has also kicked off 2024 by sending over 5 million pay up letters to people who have unfiled tax returns or balances owed. These guys are not exactly, your friends do not waive your rights or speak with these agents on your own without backup tax network. USA, a trusted tax relief firm has saved over a billion dollars in back taxes for their clients. They can help you secure the best deal possible. Whether, you owe 10 grand or 10 million bucks they can help. Whether it's business or personal taxes, Whether, you have the means to pay or whether you're on a fixed income tax network can help finally resolve your tax burdens once and for all Seize control of your financial future. Right now, do not let tax issues overpower you. Contact Tax Network USA for immediate relief and expert guidance. Call 1 802 4 5 6,000 or visit tn USA dot com slash Shapiro. Turn to Tax Network USA. Find your path to financial peace of mind. That's tn USA dot com slash Shapiro.

1 (27m 57s):
And meanwhile, closer to home, the super Bowl was celebrated on Sunday. I say celebrated 'cause it's defen. It's essentially the, the only national holiday we have left since the left has declared that Thanksgiving is actually a day of reminiscence about the evils of European colonization of the continent. And that July 4th is actually about the evils of American white supremacy and all the rest of it. So super Bowl Sunday is really the only national holiday we have left, which says not very much about our common culture, frankly, 124 million people watched the Super Bowl the other day. And then there was the Super Bowl victory parade. So the Super Bowl victory parade happened in Kansas City, of course, 'cause the Chiefs beat the 49 ERs. But a mass shooting broke out at the Super Bowl parade.

1 (28m 39s):
According to the sun, the victory parade for the Kansas City Chief's second straight super Bowl championship has now ended in tragedy. Police reported that shots had been fired near Union Station and asked fans to leave he CNN covering it yesterday.

10 (28m 51s):
Josh, again, we're looking at live images. Earlier it appeared that law enforcement was moving folks around in a certain area, but it's really hard to discern exactly what's happening just based on the images that we're seeing. What are you hearing from law enforcement sources about what happened there?

11 (29m 7s):
Yeah, Boris. So there was this clearing process, obviously that took place after these shots rang out. Officers trying to get this large group of people who had been gathered for the celebration out of the area. We're just hearing from authorities coming in just now that it appears as though at least two people have been taken into custody. It's worth pointing out right now though no indication of any, any victims. Police said that they were working to gather information. So again, we just wanna caution it's still too early to determine whether reports of shots fired here actually were related to this celebration or with whether this was just happening nearby.

1 (29m 43s):
Okay, so police are still trying to figure out exactly what the motives are. The fact that we don't know the identity of the shooter and the police clearly do, I mean, we have pictures floating around the line of the identities of the Shooter. And the police will not release that whenever the police are very reticent to release the identity of a person implicated into murder. You can fairly guarantee that politics are coming into play according to CNN. Police are working to figure out who opened fire and why. After one person was killed and 20 more wounded at the end of the Kansas City Chief's super Bowl victory rally. Children were in fact, among those shot, about a million people were gathered. Wednesday just steps from union stationed in downtown Kansas City. Three people were detained, an unspecified number of guns were recovered as the officers converged.

1 (30m 23s):
Now, it is fair to point out at this point that Kansas City is one of the more unsafe major cities in the United States. They have serious crime rates last year. They actually had the most homicides ever in the, in the city of Kansas City. It is a deeply un unsafe city at this point. High rates of poverty, high rates of crime, high rates of single motherhood, which are related to both of those things. Yeah. Meanwhile, this immediately sent Democrats into their gun control call. This is always what happens if there is a shooting. It's never about gangs. It's never about single motherhood. It's never about high rates of crime. It's never about understaffing of the police department. It's always about guns as though you can just get rid of guns across the United States with a magic wand or something.

1 (31m 7s):
So here is Democratic representative Jason Crow of Colorado calling for more gun control because this is always, it's always more cowbell for the Democrats whenever somebody gets shot, it's the fault of the instrument, not the fault of the person.

12 (31m 18s):
The gun violence in this country is not being resolved even despite the steps that have been taken by, by lawmakers. I mean the few steps, the very small steps, what needs to be done?

13 (31m 31s):
Well, my heart is breaking for Kansas City and, and for the, the victims and their families. This is a, a terrible, devastating incident. No doubt about it. We have a crisis in our nation there. There's no reason why almost 40,000 Americans a year should be dying at the hands of guns. This is a uniquely American problem, right? Nobody else in the world has the problem that we have right now. And my heart breaks, my thoughts and my prayers go out to the families and the victims here. But listen, I'm a member of Congress. I'm a legislator, right? I'm not a member of the clergy. And my job is not the just and thoughts and prayers.

13 (32m 11s):
My, my job is to legislate and to try to solve problems. And that's why I've been pushing very hard to try to solve it. And that's why people should be pushing their members of Congress and others to join with us to do the same.

1 (32m 23s):
Okay? So it it is worthwhile at this point pointing out the Democrats have entru zero legislation that would've stopped what happened yesterday in Kansas City. Zero. The weapons used were semi-automatic handguns. Democrats have proposed no laws that would get to the confiscation, which is what you would require of semi-automatic handguns because it would violate the Second Amendment as they well know. So they're basically just railing against the wind. Well, we can talk about that or we can talk about some of the heroes who actually tried to stop this thing. So there is video of the shooters trying to flee and members of the crowd tackling them, which is amazing stuff. I mean, again, there are real everyday heroes out there. Here's some of that footage. You can see the, these shooters try and get away and, and people on the sidelines are just tackling them and subduing them.

1 (33m 11s):
I mean, that's, that's heroism when you see a mass shooter and your first move is we gotta tackle this person and subdue that person. Good for the civilians who decided to get involved and, and, and help. And then the police came late and arrested again. The police are very understaffed in Kansas City. Here's an interview with one of the men who tackled the alleged shooter. His name is Paul Contreras.

15 (33m 34s):
One guy was hollering saying, you know, stop him cha or catch him, you know, tackle him whatever. And he's just, just bailing running and outta nowhere. I heard that guy hollering So I just like, okay, well I'm right here. And I just, I didn't think about it. I just, a reaction. I didn't hesitate. It was just, just do it. So I went to go tackle him and another gentleman did the same thing. And as I'm tackling him, I see his weapon either fall out of his hand or out of his sleeve. 'cause he was wearing a long jacket or like a car, Hart. So when I seen that hit the ground, I'm like, oh, you know, we gotta take this guy down.

15 (34m 14s):
And so like I said, I did and another good Samaritan did. And we held him down and it seemed like forever, but it probably wasn't. It was like 30 seconds holding him down and me and the other gentleman and hollering at on goers, you know, where's the cops we're, you know, get the cops over here, get the cops over here. You know, we got 'em.

1 (34m 36s):
I mean, so good for this person. Again, there are people out there who jump into action when something goes wrong. But if you are gonna speak about broader systemic crime problems in America's major cities, you do have to point out that one of the big problems in America, major cities is that the governing bodies in these cities are incredibly soft on crime, incredibly soft on crime. In fact, yesterday, Brandon Johnson, who is the mayor of Chicago, he announced that they were going to change how they actually identify crime occurring in Chicago. They're going to cancel a deal with a software called Shot Spotter. What exactly is Shot Spotter? Shot Spotter operates a network of acoustic sensors across the city where if a shot is fired, the police are immediately notified of that so they can get to scene.

1 (35m 18s):
He's canceling that because he says it's racist. The city put out a statement saying quote, moving forward, the City of Chicago deploys resources on the most effective strategies and tactics proven to accelerate the current downward trend in violent crime. Yes, everyone can feel it in Chicago, that current trend downward in violent crime. Things are getting so much better in Chicago, which is why nobody is traveling to Chicago these days except for illegal immigrants. By the way, here is Brandon Johnson announcing this idiocy

16 (35m 45s):
Campaign promise fulfilled Mayor Brandon Johnson is ending the city's use of the controversial gunfire surveillance system known as Shot Spotter. The city's contract with the company behind ShotSpotter expires on Friday and the police will stop using the technology. September 22nd, about a month after the Democratic National Convention, a city statement said, moving forward Chicago will deploy its resources on the most effective strategies and tactics proven to accelerate the current downward trend in violent crime.

1 (36m 16s):
And by the way, it is worth noting at this point that ShotSpotter also the company behind it, they said they were offered a six month extension by the city and they're like, Nope, you know what? Enjoy, enjoy your giant violent crime ridden city. We're out. So good job Brandon Johnson. Same thing by the way, happening in Washington DC Washington DC of course is a crime ridden hell hole. Washington DC has become a center for violent crime, including violent carjackings shootings. M-S-N-B-C just yesterday was reporting on three Washington DC officers being shot and injured while serving a warrant.

17 (36m 49s):
Anna, this began in the a a n hour here in southeast DC when metropolitan police officers were serving an arrest warrant to an individual inside a home here in southeast dc. He began shooting from inside the home towards the outside we're told three officers were injured in this shooting. We're also told a fourth has minor injuries as well. This is still a very active ongoing situation. We're expecting a briefing here from police in any moment now.

1 (37m 18s):
Okay, and then absurdly, the White House came out and blamed Republicans for the DC crime spike, which is kind of amazing since the Democrats run Washington. DC the mayor of Washington DC painted an entire street with Black Lives Matter and declared like George Floyd Plaza during BLM. Here is Ke kain Jean Pierre talking about this.

18 (37m 37s):
Does the president believe the nation's capital is safe for Americans from across the country to come visit? I mean,

5 (37m 44s):
Look, we, we hear the reports and see the data as well, and all violent crime anywhere is completely unacceptable. Not just here in DC we're gonna call that them all out in communities across the country, everyone in every community in this country wants the same thing. They want their families to be safe and, and not get into, not get into, you know, politics on this. The President is wanting to make sure that communities feel safe, and we're not seeing that from congressional Republicans. We're just not. They continue to get in the way the president has taken action. He puts, he puts that in his budget every day, making sure that we make communities safer. And we're just not seeing that from Republicans.

1 (38m 26s):
Republicans are antico now. Yeah, good luck with this particular argument in just one second, we'll get to the continuing threat of Joe Biden's senility to his reelect chances first,

Daily Wire Plus (38m 34s):
right now is your chance to get 30% off Daily Wire Plus annual memberships during our President's Day sale. When you use Code DW 30 at checkout, your Daily Wire Plus Membership is your backstage pass to conversations with the smartest, most trusted talent in America. It's your front row seat to the daily wires, upcoming hit movies and series like the Pen Dragon Cycle, Mr. Bertram, snow White in the Evil Queen and Moore. It's your inside access to ad free uncensored news and opinions that matter to you. You get it all and so much more with your Daily Wire Plus Membership right now it is 30% off during our President's Day sale. Go to DailyWire dot com slash subscribe, use code DW 30 at checkout.

1 (39m 7s):
Meanwhile, we have some news from Joe Biden's senility challenge, which is what's happening for his 2024 reelect. So apparently you remember during his terrible press conference last week, Joe Biden got very angry, got very angry because of the special counsel's suggestion that he couldn't remember when his son died. And so he did a whole shtick about how terrible it was that he was even asked the question, remember how dare

19 (39m 30s):
He, you even ask the question, how dare, how the hell dare

1 (39m 34s):
He raise that? You remember that? Remember he said that last week? That was last Friday. It was last Thursday actually. You remember that? It was, it was great. Well now it emerges that actually he was never asked that question. You know why Bo Biden came up? Because Joe Biden will bring him up in any context as his get out of jail free card for literally everything according to NBC news. Quote, her never asked that question. According to two people familiar with her five hour interview with the president over two days last October, it was the president, not her or his team who first introduced Bo Biden's death. They said Biden raised his son's death after being asked about his workflow at a Virginia rental home from 2016 to 2018 when a ghost writer was helping him write a memoir about losing Bo to brain cancer. In 2015, investigators had a 2017 recording showing that Biden had told the ghost writer he found classified stuff in that home.

1 (40m 20s):
Biden began trying to recall that period by discussing what else was happening in his life. It was at that point in the interview he appeared confused about when Bo died. Biden got the date correct, but not the year. So presumably he was trying to use that as an excuse for why he was confused and upset. But it was 2017 and actually Bo had died already a couple of years prior and it was Biden who raised it and then blamed her for asking the question. Yet things are not going well for Joe Biden. He happens to be, by the way, just an awful, I mean, I I say it all the time. He really is a garbage president. In fact, Joe Biden today announced that the Department of Homeland Security is going to shield Palestinians in the United States illegally from deportation and loosen work requirements to funnel them into American jobs.

1 (41m 5s):
He provided most Palestinians in the United States with quote, deferred enforcement departure for at least 18 months. Memorandum ensures that most Palestinians cannot be deported from the U United States over the next year and a half. Also, DHS is is advised to offer employment for non-citizens whose removal has been deferred for the duration of such deferral and loosen regulations. So Palestinians in the United States on F1 student visas can hold American jobs if you overstay your visa by your Palestinian. Now Joe Biden wants to keep you here indefinitely. Now all of this, again, is a pandered to Dearborn, Michigan. That is what he's doing. He thinks he's going to lose Michigan and the only way that he's gonna maintain Michigan is by pandering super duper hard on the Israel Palestinian issue, which presumably is also why he is now attempting to push forward a quote unquote peace plan that would effectively amount to endless war in the region by unilaterally proposing a Palestinian state.

1 (41m 60s):
So in other words, you get to kill 1200 Jews and you get a state is the new logic from the Biden administration. There was no Palestinian state prior to that because there is no actual governing body in the West Bank or in the Gaza Strip that is not a giant terror group. There are no actual borders, there's no actual economy, there's no actual rule over those areas in any serious sense by any of those governing bodies, which is why, but kill 1200 Jews and Joe Biden will give you a state as the logic according to the times of Israel, the United States and several era partners are preparing a detailed plan for a comprehensive peace deal between Israel and Palestinians. That includes a firm timeline for a Palestinian state. Now, I'm not sure exactly how you would have a firm timeline for a Palestinian state, given the fact that you would have to hit markers for that timeline such as, you know, not teaching all your kids to murder as many Jews as humanly possible, which is exactly what is taught in Palestinian schools.

1 (42m 51s):
Unfortunately, officials told the post that they hope to make the plan public. Once Israel and Kamas agreed to a temporary truce aimed at allowing humanitarian aid in the Gaza and freeing the hostages still held by the terror group in the strip during that report, during the pause steps would be taken toward implementation of the proposal, including forming an interim Palestinian government that could also rule over Gaza. Good luck on all of this Is all pie in the sky nonsense, but that's Joe Biden's shtick pie in the sky nonsense. He's incredibly, incredibly bad at this particular job. So meanwhile, in the funniest story of the day, remember Rachel do Isal. So Rachel Dolezal was the lady who pretended that she was black for years and years. She had changed her name to Nkechi Diallo after being publicly smeared and actually exposed, not smeared as Rachel Dolezal, right?

1 (43m 39s):
She's a white lady from like Kansas, and she had pretended to be a black lady and then she'd actually become the head of the SP Can Washington NAACP or something. And then she was exposed for all of that and became a national punchline, obviously. Well, then she became a teacher at an elementary school in Arizona, because that's who you would invite is a crazy person to teach your small children in elementary school, apparently. Well, it turns out now she's been fired again. Why? Well, because she had an OnlyFans account. So it turns out that not only is she a crazy person masquerading as a person of another race also, she is prostituting herself on OnlyFans. So that's great. According to the school district, we only learned of Miss Nkechi dial's OnlyFans at social media posts yesterday afternoon.

1 (44m 22s):
She's no longer employed by the Catalina Foothills School District. So apparently, I mean, talk about a life story here, Diallo. I I I do love that we just, you know, randomly go with people's new names, genders, all the rest of it. Diallo lost her role teaching African studies at Eastern Washington University and launched an account on OnlyFans in 2021 after struggling to find work. She made 600 posts in the year since and shared hundreds of pay walled adult videos and photos. So that that is a life story that is going very poorly that that particular life story. So best of luck to Rachel do Isal in all of her newest efforts. Meanwhile, Donald Trump, his legal drama continues. So the Trump State prosecutions are apparently reaching a, a kind of turning point in two separate cities.

1 (45m 7s):
You've got the, the court going in New York, and you also have the court going in Atlanta, Georgia, according to CNN Trump is expected to show up in court in New York for procedural hearing ahead of that trial over the hush money payment to Stormy Daniels. Remember that this is Alvin Bragg's idiotic prosecution of Donald Trump for a, for a state charge on the basis of violation of federal campaign finance law, all about how he should have declared as a campaign finance expenditure, his payment to Stormy Daniels or some such nonsense. It's it's absolute garbage. So he's gonna be in New York at that evidentiary hearing. And then meanwhile, a judge is holding an evidentiary hearing in Fulton County, Georgia because district attorney Fannie Willis was tripping the prosecutor who she hired, who had no actual prosecutorial experience according to the associate press, should district attorney Fannie Willis beer removed from the Georgia election interference case against Donald Trump because of her personal relationship with a special prosecutor, lawyers were set to battle over the question.

1 (46m 1s):
During a hearing in Atlanta on Thursday, Willis the DA for Georgia's Fulton County had hired an outside lawyer named Nathan Wades help investigate whether Trump and his allies committed crimes while trying to overturn his 2020 election loss in the state. Wade has led the team prosecuting the case since an indictment was returned in August. If she were removed, it would seriously diminish the chances of Trump's conviction in that particular case. Not only, I mean, it looked like a political prosecution Not only that it would certainly delay the trial to beyond the election. So well done Fannie Willis for effectively getting Trump off in that particular case. I mean, listen, that case is also a ery. The, the, the legality behind the case makes no sense, as we've explained many times on the show. But Fannie Willis, it's not that that's, that's letting Trump off the hook there.

1 (46m 44s):
It's that Fannie Willis was tripping the guy that she hired and with, with taxpayer money. So that, that is a bigger problem. And I, I think the Democrat's hopes that Donald Trump is going to somehow be defeated by his legal cases. I, I find that very hard to believe and right now, if the election were held today, Donald Trump would win. That is the reality of the situation right now. When you look at the general election, Donald Trump is up by a point and a half in the real clear politics polling average, it's a lot closer than it should be considering he's running against a dead person. But the last several polls have Trump up 4, 5 2, Biden up, won Trump up, won tie, very, very close election obviously. But if Donald Trump is within one point of Joe Biden, the likelihood is that he'll win the election.

1 (47m 28s):
Either way. Remember, he lost to Hillary Clinton in the popular vote by a significant percentage, and he still won the election at this point in time. It should be worth noting. In the last two election cycles, Joe Biden was up almost six points in the real clear politics polling average and Hillary Clinton in 2016 was up almost five points in the real clear politics polling average. Meanwhile, Donald Trump today is up a point and a half, so bad news for Democrats. Alrighty, guys, the rest of the show continues right now. We'll be jumping into the v Ben Shapiro Show mailbag. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Code Shapiro checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us

22 (48m 8s):
Dental Associates of Northern Virginia redefine what it means to visit the dentist. Get top quality personalized support from committed experts who prioritize the wellbeing and satisfaction of you and your family care is centered on a highly personalized treatment plan backed by the trust and support of long lasting relationships. Schedule your next appointment by visiting Dental one-va.com/offer/siriusxm.