Mint Mobile (0s):
Ryan Reynolds here from Mint Mobile. I don't know If you knew this, but anyone can get the same premium wireless for $15 a month plan that I've been enjoying. It's not just for celebrities. So do like I did and have one of your assistants, assistants switch you to Mint Mobile today. I'm told it's super easy to do at mint mobile.com/switch. Upfront payment of $45 for three month plan equivalent to $15 per month required. New subscribers only renew for 12 months to lock in savings, taxes and fees. Extra additional restrictions apply. See full terms@mintmobile.com.

2 (31s):
So before I get to the big news of the day, I want to give you the update on the number one song in America Facts. So we still have one day to put this thing at the top of the Billboard charts. Billboard itself is now basically acknowledging the facts, which is my rap song with Tom McDonald's or more accurately Tom McDonald's rap star rap song featuring me. Billboard is now acknowledging that it's likely to make number one on the billboard charts, which is hysterically funny And, they are freaking out about it. They put out a piece yesterday over@billboard.com titled Next week's Hot 100 Megan Thee Stallion versus Nicki Minaj versus Ben Shapiro And. they are freaking out. Now let's be clear, the Hot 100 is not actually the list that we are seeking to be number one on.

2 (1m 12s):
The one that we wanna be number one on is the digital song sales, which is why you should head on over to iTunes. Those are the only sales that are currently being counted in terms of the Billboard Digital song sales list. So head on over to iTunes right now, If, you haven't already bought the song and go do that over there. But Billboard is freaking out about this and they're freaking out about this for a very simple reason, which is they've attempted to basically bar people like Tom McDonald from the charts. The the hip hop industry is very much infused with left wing thinking on everything from social politics to drug politics to all the rest of it. I mean, we all know what hip hop has brought to the world in terms of sort of its moral compass and that is to say in large part not much.

2 (1m 52s):
And so a song like Facts, which is very much directed the other way, right, as Tom McDonald's raps in the song, we're not gonna turn your sons into thugs or your daughters into hoes. That's something that the industry simply cannot take. They do not like it at all. And so Billboard is freaking out about this Billboard put out this piece yesterday saying yes really after right-Wing Pundit, Ben SHAPIRO helped propel multiple songs to number one this decade, including Megan v. Stallions on Wap back in 2020 with either his endorsement or his disavow. He's now in pursuit of a hot 100 topper of his own. He even admits as much on facts his collab with anti woke rapper Tom McDonald as he directs audiences during his own rap verse again, yes, really all my people download this. Let's get a billboard. Number one, as they point out, we've had no radio support.

2 (2m 34s):
We are not a big corporation that is dedicated to music and and manipulating the charts If. you actually go look at the charts over at iTunes. What you'll see is that Megan, these Stallion's Hiss, which is the top competitor for that number one slot right now alongside Nicki Mina's Bigfoot, both of those tracks have now been separated into about eight different versions of the track so as to aggregate sales. So you have a bunch of versions of the same song over and over and over being pumped by these massive corporations in an attempt to prevent Tom's song with me from hitting number one on the billboard chart. So go make it happen right now folks. Let's get that billboard number one. This is sort of your last opportunity today to get in under the Wire. So head on over to iTunes and get the song. It is also again amazing how the media are deliberately and militantly attempting to not get the joke.

2 (3m 22s):
They, they cannot allow the joke to happen. The joke is the funniest joke in the history of pop culture. I'm sorry, it is me at the top of the rap charts is indeed the funniest joke in the history of pop culture in the United States. I don't think there's a, a big competitor to be frank with you, and they really don't wanna get the joke. So the Washington Post has an entire piece today titled Ben Shapiro's new song Hit number one on iTunes. How did that happen? And here is what they write. Humorless absolutely humorless because democracy dies in darkness and the Washington Post is in fact the darkness. Quote, Ben Shapiro, a rightwing political commentator known for his incendiary takes just made his rap debut with a Spitfire song called Facts. It sorts in the number one spot on the iTunes store sitting above recent pop and hip hop hits from the likes of Megan Thee stallion, Justin Timberlake and Jack Harlow.

2 (4m 4s):
The song, a collaboration between Shapiro and Canadian rap artist Tom McDonald. To be fair, Tom is the chief artist. You know, I, I'm gonna keep mentioning this because Tom is the one who's actually good at this, okay? And Tom is being overlooked by some of the media because of the hysterically funny headline that I'm a rap artist now, Tom actually is. In any case, the song is packed with lyrics to take, take aim at critics the culture wars, the rap genre in general and call out rap artist Nicki Minaj and Lizzo by the way, sidetrack right here, hat tip to Nicki Minaj, who is, who's really I think, enjoying this whole controversy. Nicki Minaj actually tweeted out this morning quote, wait till they wake up and listen to what Ben Shapiro is saying. In fact, the outrage on this one will be a tad bit delayed. They like I I'm, I'm enjoying it, Nick, appreciate in any case, here's the Washington Post and not understanding things.

2 (4m 48s):
Quote being number one appears to be a big deal for Shapiro who founded The Daily Wire in 2015 and currently hosts his own political podcast and radio show. He recently changed his bio on x formerly Twitter to read World's number one rapper. He titled one of his recent YouTube podcast videos. I am America's number one rapper in which he played the entire facts music video while praising the success of his thought. Wait, you wait, it's a big deal to me, number one, as opposed to, you know, all the other people in the music industry who are attempting to be number three. Hey, I love the watch. It appears to be a big deal to be number. Yes. That's why you're writing about it. I noticed that's why you're paying attention to it. Like, oh, well you know, he, he seems to care about being number one. Oh my you, you, you losers truly you losers who refuse to get the joke.

2 (5m 31s):
They say the song success mirrors that of other songs that are ties to America's politics like Jason Aldean's tried that in a small town in Oliver Anthony's Richmond, north of Richmond from last summer. And then this thing goes on for like hundreds of words talking in very serious terms about what happened here. Quote, Shapiro has a noted history of criticizing rap music and explicit lyrics in 2019. He said on his his show the rap wasn't a real genre of music igniting a backlash on social media. Well, I mean I said that because I'm a classically trained musician and let me just explain what that means for folks who don't actually understand the difference between say rap and hip hop and classical music. To be a classically trained musician means you will spend in your life tens of thousands of hours practicing at an instrument.

2 (6m 11s):
So you can play some of the greatest music ever written to be a number one charting billboard. Rap artist means being featured in at Tom McDonald song where I ra for like 30 seconds and my lifelong preparation for that was talking that is not the same thing remotely in kind, but again, the media are militantly refusing to to get the joke. And so that makes the joke even funnier of course. and we can only hope that at the Grammys we'll receive some sort of recognition for the fact that we are in fact the number one song in America. and we need your help today to make sure just to, again, billboard is basically acknowledging we will be number one on the digital we download chart, which is the one that we're aiming for.

2 (6m 53s):
We need your help with that. So head on over to iTunes right now and give us that final push today. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

ExpressVPN (6m 59s):
First, if there is one must have app on my phone, it's Express VPN. I know adding an extra step to anything you do every day just sounds like a hassle. But If, you knew how easy it was to protect your connection with Express VPN. You'd already be doing it. Express VN is the easiest way to browse the internet safely and securely without all the hassle you hate about the other VPNs. Other VPNs slow your connection to the point where it's not even worth it to connect, but express VPN, it doesn't lag or buffer. You can stream in HD with no issues. All you need to do is open the app, click one button, enjoy instant protection all across your devices. Once you connect, you don't even realize you have it on, but your connection is secure, your data is 100% encrypted. It's no wonder ExpressVPN has been called the best VPN by Business Insider and TechRadar right now. Go to ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben. You can get extra three months of ExpressVPN for free. That's ex PRSS vpn.com/ Ben. Get three extra months of ExpressVPN for free when you sign up expressive vpn.com/ Ben. It's the way I protect my data. You should do the same. Head on over to expressive vpn.com/ Ben to get started.

2 (7m 58s):
Okay, meanwhile, in actual news, in actual news, there's a video that has now gone viral and it is indicative of the chief issue in the 2024 campaign. And it's gonna remain the chief issue in the 2024 campaign until some other issue takes precedence. And there's a long time between now and the election, but right now the big issue of this campaign and the big issue of our time is human migration. Human migration is the big issue of our time. It's causing a vast turmoil in European politics. It's causing vast turmoil in Africa. It's causing vast turmoil in the United States. 'cause it turns out that large swaths of human beings crossing borders Willy-nilly causes conflict. And so what we are seeing in the United States are the results of that conflict.

2 (8m 38s):
Here's a video. This came out day before yesterday. It is a, it is a migrant mob in illegal immigrant mob pounding a pair of Cops near York Times Square over the weekend. Here's what that video looks like. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. So you can see these, these guys are just jumping these two Cops like a bunch of them. They're just jumping these two Cops. They're beating them down on the streets. Th this has to be what? 10 12 illegal Immigrants. Apparently police initially busted four of the asylum seeking thugs. Now remember they're seeking asylum. What have I been saying? Four weeks, right? I made this documentary about the Southern Border should go check it out at Daily Wire dot com because it's a fantastic documentary talking about exactly what is happening.

2 (9m 22s):
To understand what is happening. You have to understand the chief signal thing the Biden administration did is they said, you now have a magic word to get into the United states of America. You walk up to the border, you find a Border patrol agent, you shout, I fear to go back to my home country. This amounts to a legal asylum claim. At that point you are not held in Mexico pending a hearing on whether you in fact have the right to seek asylum. You are not actually held in detention. They process you and they release you to the interior where you go to New York and you beat the living out Cops. That apparently is, is the, the way that immigration is working in the United States. Of course the vast majority of people who are crossing the border are not doing this. But why should any of this be happening? Literally this should not be happening. These these people were seeking asylum and what they really are, are criminals who are seeking to participate in criminality.

2 (10m 8s):
According to the New York Post, the footage shows an NYPD officer and lieutenant initially telling the migrants to move along around 8:30 PM Saturday on West 42nd Street in Manhattan, which of course like the heart of Manhattan, that is before things quickly got rowdy as a scuffle broke out between the Cops and a suspect who was wrestled to the ground and then the rest of the illegal Immigrants converged on the officers and started beating the hell out of them. The video shows the two officers left on the ground as the pack runs east on 42nd Street towards seventh Avenue and gets away, but not for long. Police initially busted four of the asylum seeking thug identified as Darwin. Andres Gomez is Kyle 19 Kelvin Rocha, 19 Juarez Wilson 21 and Yorman Rivera 24. Adding to the rich diversity of the United States, all four were charged with assault and released without bail according to sources.

2 (10m 55s):
Perfect New York story, illegal Immigrants on the streets, beating the hell outta Cops, released without bail, A fifth suspect. Yohan Boada 22 was arrested Monday night and charged with attempted assault of a police officer. The Manhattan DA's office say they are still investigating the incident and reviewing additional video of the alleged assault. One of the men has two open cases in Manhattan for assault and robbery. So he is been arrested twice before, is an Illegal immigrant, has not been deported, got arrested again for assaulting a cop and then got released from jail immediately without bail in November, he allegedly pu pushed, punched and bit a Nordstrom rack employee who caught him lifting a $130 item from the Union Square stores display rack according to law enforcement sources.

2 (11m 37s):
Also last month Reverend also punched with a closed fist, a lost prevention officer at the Herald Square Macy's after trying to pull off a robbery with two other suspects. So this guy's just a career criminal in the United States pretending he has an asylum claim. This is Joe Biden's America. This is Joe Biden's immigration policy. This is Joe Biden's choice to let people like this into the country. He has the law on the books that would allow him to stop all of this. This wouldn't have happened. This is this. Under Donald Trump's immigration policy, people like this would be turned back at the border. It would've been remaining in Mexico awaiting their asylum hearing. The shocking incident is just the latest example of asylum seekers running afoul of the law in the big apple according to the New York Post.

2 (12m 20s):
Again, this is, you should not be shocked by things that are perfectly predictable. In fact, as Jan Boada, who's the last one who just got arrested was leaving Manhattan criminal court without bail, he flipped off the press, literally walks out, flashes two middle fingers at the press as he walks out. NYPD, chief of patrol John Child told reporters, you saw the video reprehensible, they're cowards. You have eight people attacking a lieutenant and a cop running up to them to kick them in the face. Okay? Like meanwhile, this dude is just walking out free flipping off the press. Why are people like this in our country? Why there is no right to be in our country. If, you are a criminal. There is no right to be in our country. If, you are a a citizen of another country and you are not legally claiming asylum if your asylum claim is bull crap.

2 (13m 7s):
And yet the the wild left is captured the Democratic party to the extent that they are refusing to say the obvious, which is these people should not be in our country, they should not be in our country. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Good Ranchers (13m 18s):
First, it's a struggle to find tasty healthy food at the grocery store. These days everything seems to have more labels than calories. Fortunately for you, my friends at Good Ranchers are extending their new year new meat offer, but only for my listeners. You're not gonna find this deal anywhere else. Here's what you have to do. Go to good Ranchers dot com, subscribe to any of their boxes, use code Shapiro at checkout. They'll add over two pounds of chicken breasts. That's $189 value to every order you receive for the next year. That's over 25 pounds of pre trimmed better than organic chicken for free. I actually have had a kosher steak from good Ranchers like the one kosher steak they made. It was amazing. And everything from good Ranchers. Is that good? My people tell me. So they sent me salmon from their wild caught seafood box. That was also amazing. By the way. Good Ranchers only sources from the best meat America has to offer completely antibiotic hormone and vaccine free. If you're not sure which box to choose If, you can try their brand new weekly essentials box filled with pre trimmed beef and chicken, saving you time on meal preparation without sacrificing flavor. Stock your fridge with good Ranchers today. Go to good Ranchers dot com. Use my code Shapiro to enjoy FREE chicken for a Year. That's good. Ranchers dot com code SHAPIRO claim your free chicken good Ranchers dot com American meat delivered.

2 (14m 24s):
How far left is the left move? So Cusper, who we've had on the show right over at the Young Turks, she made the signal error the other day of actually saying on the air that people like this should be deported and people went nuts on her. How could she do this? Here's a clip of Anna.

3 (14m 39s):
These are not people you need to provide cover for. These are people who are in the country claiming asylum. They don't have a right to be here. It is a privilege to be able to take advantage of our asylum

2 (14m 51s):
Program for this. She's been receiving extraordinary blowback because the somewhat rational left is being completely expelled by the actual radical left. That is the current state of things and you can see that this battle inside the Democratic party. Now I know everybody is sort of giving up the ghost for the moderate Democrats. I think it's a little early for that. This is a battle that still has to be fought inside the Democratic party because the impact of illegal immigration in blue sensors is finally starting to be felt here. For example, is the Massachusetts Governor Ma Healey crying as she announces, she's converting a recreation center into a housing facility for Illegal Immigrants

4 (15m 28s):
Emotional guys, okay, because I'm committed to this. Little kids need to be able to breathe clean air. They need to be able to access swimming pools, they need to have lifeguards there who are gonna teach 'em how to swim and they need to have activities. I don't know what we're gonna do for a couple, three months. I'll call universities, I'll call other places.

2 (15m 51s):
Okay? Now here's the problem. This is going to be used as an emergency shelter for people who are sleeping literally at Logan Airport. They're literally sleeping in illegal Immigrants at Logan International Airport. The cast recreation center is the center that is going to be used as sort of the overflow center that is going to accommodate 400 people or about 100 families. But local members of the community are like, what the hell? Like seriously, what the hell? Why do we have a a, an extraordinary number of illegal Immigrants who have now taken over the rec center that we pay our taxes force so that we can use what, what, what? Why is this happening? And meanwhile you have this radical Governor of Massachusetts crying over it. Well good luck. Good luck If. you think that's a winning message? Good luck to you.

2 (16m 32s):
Meanwhile, here is Democratic Denver mayor Mike Johnson pointing out that the city of Denver is completely filled up that every hotel in the city of Denver has been taken over by illegal Immigrants.

5 (16m 43s):
So we've always had a length of stay policy here, which was generally individual adults could stay for 14 days and families could stay for 37 days. We paused it for about four to six weeks during very, very cold times in November and December. Every hotel room we have in the city of Denver is full. We're at 5,000 people in shelter and we have more coming every day. I think our city is very close to its breaking point now.

2 (17m 5s):
Yeah, it's it's, that's right, that's right. And and many Democrats are starting to see it and people ranging from John Fetterman to the Democratic Mayor of Denver, they, they do see it in these other cities. By the way Eric, Adam sees it in New York. Brandon Johnson sees it in Chicago. I mean they're all seeing it. They're just pretending they don't see it. And you can only pretend that reality doesn't exist for so long before even your typical voters start to turn on you. And that is what is happening with regard to immigration and Joe Biden, which again, he's losing that issue by leaps and bounds. His only response to this is going to be abortion. By the way. He's not going to even deal with the immigration issue. The immigration issue is just gonna simmer the entire year. He's instead going to redirect at abortion and try to get suburban women to vote against Donald Trump based on their supposed need for an abortion, despite the fact that suburban women aren't actually having that many abortions in the United States at this point in time.

2 (17m 48s):
But the immigration issue for a huge number of Americans is going to continue to grow in size as well. It should by the way. All it would take is God forbid, one serious terrorist attack by an Illegal immigrant crossing America's Southern border, which there are countries that are attempting to funnel terrorists across America's Southern Border. Given that it is wide open at this point, all it would take is a serious attack to completely shift the nature of American politics, perhaps for a generation because it turns out that we've America, that the great promise of America is free markets and security just in terms of what the government is supposed to provide you. Property rights and security. Those are the things that America historically has done incredibly well. Well if it feels like both of those things are in danger, that's something that Americans are not going to react well to.

2 (18m 32s):
According to the new Bloomberg swing states poll. The question was how responsible, if at all, is President Biden for the increase in migrants crossing the US Mexico border? 61% say responsible only 29% say not responsible. That by the way includes 38% of Democrats who say that Joe Biden is responsible for the huge increase in illegal immigration at the border. That includes 59% of Hispanics, 47% of blacks as opposed to 36% who say that he is not responsible for all of that. 52% of Americans trust Donald Trump on immigration compared to 30% of Americans trusting Joe Biden. By the way, on the economy the numbers are fairly similar on the economy.

2 (19m 12s):
Trump is trusted by 51% is in the swing states versus 33% for Joe Biden. So right now you're seeing some national polling data that's suggesting that Biden has opened up a lead in in a head-to-head. Quinnipiac University put out a poll yesterday. They put out this poll and they show a lead of Biden, a significant lead, a 50 to 44% lead among registered voters in a hypothetical general election matchup. Now there is a difference between registered voters and likely voters. Likely voter polls tend to be better. Registered voter polls tend to be worse. The reason is because again, there are a lot of registered voters who are simply not going to vote in the upcoming election. This is the big problem for Joe Biden. He won. When you have the biggest spike in election votes in American history, when the number of votes in a presidential election shifts by extraordinary percentages in 2016, there are approximately 157 million voters and there are about 136 million votes cast in 2020.

2 (20m 9s):
A hundred and fifty seven, a hundred fifty 5 million people showed up to vote in twenty twenty, a hundred fifty 5 million people. That is an increase of, again, like 18 to 20 million people in one election cycle. That is not gonna replicate this time it's going to turnout is gonna be down in 2024. It will mainly because all of the voting rules are gonna shift back to normal and a lot of people are gonna be expected to, you know, go to a polling place and actually vote. You're not going to get people voting five months in advance of the election by mail something like 60% of all Democratic voters in the last election cycle voted by mail. That is not going to replicate this time. So while you're seeing a lot of polls that are starting to emerge nationally in the states, Donald Trump does in fact retain a lead Donald and, and that lead is going to be durable so long as Joe Biden continues to destroy the situation on the Border and he is doing that single-handedly, by the way, this is one reason the border deal is on life support.

2 (20m 60s):
If Republicans actually thought that there was a, a chance that Joe Biden was going to shut down the Border, if Joe Biden actually just today came out and he said, listen, we're doing remain in Mexico and we are also going to make sure that If, you have an asylum application that you have to stay in detention until that is adjudicated. If Joe Biden made those two changes today, the chances of a border deal would go up significantly. Not just because Republicans might then believe that they had something like a credible partner in shutting the Border and maintaining a Border at all, but also because the political incentives which would switch then it would move from if there is a compromise on the border that bails Joe Biden out to, if there's a compromise on the border that shifts the law in a direction that we like, that is a, a cementing of actions that Joe Biden's already taking.

2 (21m 43s):
What republicans are, are afraid of is that they're going to sign onto a border deal and Joe Biden is then going to absolutely screw them in terms of the executive implementation of that deal. And, they are right to be particularly frightened of that when you see all these Republican senators who are out there right now saying things about the bill and the bill's so great and this we have not yet seen the text of the bill. I can't adjudicate whether I think the bill is good or tell you whether I think the bill is good until I've actually seen the bill. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Balance Of Nature (22m 8s):
First balance of Nature fruits and veggies. They're the most convenient way to get whole food ingredients every single day. Balance of Nature uses an advanced cold vacuum process that encapsulates fruits and veggies into whole food supplements without sacrificing natural antioxidants. The capsules are completely void of additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticides or added sugar. The only thing in balance of nature's fruit and veggie capsules are, you know, like fruits and veggies. Right now, not only will my listeners get 35% off your first order, you'll now get a FREE Fiber and Spice supplement as well. You'll Balance of Nature's Fiber and Spice supplement is a revolutionary Fiber drink with a unique blend of 12 spices and Whole Foods producer Zach brings it on the road. We're on the road a lot these days. Balance of Nature has been keeping him alive and productive. There's never been an easier way to make sure you're getting your daily dose of fruits and veggies. Experience balance of Nature for yourself today, go to balance of Nature dot com Use promo code SHAPIRO for 35% off your first order as a preferred customer. Plus get a free bottle of Fiber and Spice. That's balance of Nature dot com promo code Shapiro get 35% off your first preferred order plus a free bottle of Fiber and Spice today.

2 (23m 10s):
So it is very likely of course that the bill is gonna go nowhere. House speaker Mike Johnson has used rumors of the Bill's contents to pronounce it. DOA Senator James Langford of Oklahoma said he's been meeting with Republicans one-on-one to clear up information about the bill. Senator Ki Sinema, she says The rumors swirling about what this does and does not do are wrong. So the question is, why not just release what the deal is? We want one. Once we know what the deal is, then we can decide whether or not to to give the deal. Bottom line though is that there's only one person who can bail Joe Biden outta the situation. And it is in fact Joe Biden. Meanwhile, Joe Biden quickly trying to backfill many of his problems with his own domestic base, particularly among blue collar white voters.

2 (23m 50s):
That is the the constituency, believe it or not, that Joe Biden actually cut into against Donald Trump in 2020. Donald Trump overperformed with minorities Donald Trump overperformed in urban areas. Donald Trump underperformed with blue collar white workers in 2020. Statistically he actually underperformed what he'd done in 2016, in 2020. I know it's weird to say that, but that actually is the statistical truth. Well a lot of those voters are now turning again back to Donald Trump and away from Joe Biden, which presumably is why Joe Biden is now pretending he cares about East Palestine, Ohio. Y'all recall that East Palestinian Ohio was a place where there's a major trains derailment and there's a toxic spill and, and Joe Biden just didn't go there for a year and Pete Buttigieg didn't go there and Pete Buttigieg was on TV talking about why it was necessary for him to take paternity leave to care for his, his husband who obviously was egregiously physically wounded during the birth of their, of their child.

2 (24m 41s):
In any case, Kain Jean-Pierre is explaining why Joe Biden is visiting East Palestine. The answer is that Joe Biden is trying to shore up that sort of rust belt base that he thinks he has here

6 (24m 52s):
East Palestine. Why, why did the administration decide that things have, I guess, coalesced and it's now the time for President Biden to go?

7 (25m 4s):
So the mayor and community leaders invited the president to meet with East Palestine residents and also assess the recovery progress that's been going on for some time now, as you all know. And so the president had always said that he would go when it is most helpful to the community. And with this in invitation, obviously very recent and the current status of the recovery, we felt that the time was right. Again, we got an invitation from the mayor and community leaders to to come and very, very recently. And so we are working with them to figure out the best time to do that in February.

2 (25m 43s):
Oh, is is that when you received the invitation very recently. By very recently, do you mean a year ago? Because that's not usually how we keep time in the real world is very recently is like a year ago if my, if, if, if I say that I took my wife out to dinner recently and what I mean by that is in 2022, that's not recently. That's not how it works. Again, Joe Biden has to shore up that marginal base because he's just campaigning incredibly weak. His poll numbers are really bad and because they're so bad, he's trying pretty much everything in the book, which is presumably also why Joe Biden is now attempting to buy off Michigan Muslim voters. That is effectively what he's doing right now with all of his idiot talk about the Middle East. I gotta say his Middle Eastern policy has been a complete crap show since he took office.

2 (26m 26s):
Whether it's reorienting away from Saudi Arabia, reorienting away from Israel, orienting toward Iran being incredibly conciliatory toward the Ayatollahs declaring the Houthis, a nont group trying to undermine the Saudi regime. What like Joe Biden has made nothing but missteps in the Middle East like over and over and over and now they're looking at maybe doing their biggest misstep of all. And the reason that they're doing that is of course, because Joe Biden's radical base is pro Hamas. There's a radical part of the Democratic party, not the whole Democratic party. There's a radical part of the Democratic party that actually is kind of warm toward Hamas and we would like to see Israel disappear and that radical base does exist in places ranging from Chicago to Michigan. Last night, the Chicago City Council, there's a 23 to 23 tie at the city council and it was broken by the moron mayor of Chicago, Brandon Johnson, who has presided over the continuing collapse of one of America's great cities and Chicago voted for a ceasefire in Gaza, which at this point I should note, there should be, they, they should actually vote for a ceasefire in Chicago.

2 (27m 27s):
That'd be more appropriate considering that there were 617 murders in Chicago last year alone. And then in 2023 there were 2,452 shootings in Chicago. Maybe they should work on the ceasefire in Chicago before they work on the ceasefire in Gaza. But of course this is how you please your radical left base and Brandon Johnson is in fact a radical leftist idiot,

8 (27m 47s):
This resolution motion even though there is no tie. So I will exercise my vote and I right, I vote. Aye yes

2 (28m 1s):
Guys, we did it. We did it. We, we we got a ceasefire in ga. You got nothing. You got nothing. I'm sorry. There is no ceasefire in Gaza nor will there be a ceasefire in Gaza. But you have a bunch of pro Hamas terrorist supporters who are extremely excited about Chicago voting for a ceasefire in Gaza. Well good news folks. I have singularly declared world peace. It's all your problems are solved. I've also declared universal prosperity. I voted for it, I said it therefore it exists. Or alternatively, y'all are a bunch of morons. We'll get to Mor on this in just one second.

Tax Network USA (28m 28s):
First, are you struggling with back taxes or unfiled returns? This year the IRS is escalating collections. They've added 20,000 new agents. Oh no. In these challenging times, your best defense is to use tax network USA, along with hiring thousands of new agents and field officers. The IRS is kicked off 2024 by sending over 5 million pay up letters to those who have unfiled tax returns or balances owed. These guys are not your friends. Don't waive your rights and speak with those agents on your own without backup. That'd be a foolish move tax network USA, a trusted tax relief firm has saved over a billion dollars in back taxes for their clients. They can help you secure the best deal possible. Whether you owe 10 grand or 10 million bucks, they can help whether it's business or personal taxes, whether you have the means to pay or you're on a fixed income tax network can finally resolve your tax burdens once and for all Seize control of your financial future. Right now, do not let tax issues overpower you. Contact Tax Network USA for immediate relief and expert guidance. Call 1 802 4 5 6,000 or visit tn USA dot com slash Shapiro. Again, turn to tax Network USA. Find your path to financial peace of mind. That's tn USA dot com slash Shapiro.

2 (29m 30s):
That radical left base does matter to Joe Biden, which is why he keeps massaging the shoulders of people protesting him and shouting about how much they love radical terror groups that murder Jews and rape women and kill babies. In fact, how, how radical are certain parts of the Democratic party? So last night in the House of Representatives there was a vote, the vote was a bill to bar from the United States, all Hamas members and anyone involved with the Islamist Terror group. October 7th attack on Israel. That seems like a pretty obvious one, right? Like you don't get to come to the United States If, you are a member of the terrorist group. Hamas seems rational, right? Or If you were involved and you know, a direct terror assault that killed 1200 people and took 240 people into hostage situations, into tunnels, If, you are involved in that.

2 (30m 16s):
It seems like you probably shouldn't enter the United States. It's like baseline stuff, right? There were in fact there was near anonymity in the house for this, for this very, very easy notion. There were two voters who said no, who said no. If you're a member of Hamas, you should be allowed to come into the United States If, you are If, you were involved in an actual terror attack on October 7th. You should also be allowed into the United states. Who were these truly evil human beings? Wait for it. You know, it's coming. Representative Cory Bush who when she's not expending allegedly taxpayer dollars to pay off her various relations is, is voting in favor of Hamas and Rashida tb. Your democrat from Terror Island over here. It it is amazing.

2 (30m 56s):
In a statement Taleb said the bill incited hatred against people like her. What you mean terrorists? Like I'm, I'm, I'm confused. I don't think Rashida Taleb is a terrorist. Is she declaring herself in total solidarity with Hamas terrorists? Because she's saying the quiet part out loud. If so she denounced the bill as another GOP messaging bill being used to incite anti-Arab anti Palestinian, anti-Muslim hatred that makes communities like ours unsafe. I should point out at this point that she says it's a GOP messaging bill. It literally passed 412 to like two, sorry 422, 2 2 was the actual vote. 422 to two was the actual vote here. So yeah, that's a, that's a GOP messaging bill in which 422 people vote one way and she and Cory Bush vote the other.

2 (31m 38s):
By the way again, you're sort of saying the quiet part out loud. If, you say we can't discriminate against terrorists because people might think that terrorists are Muslims or that it is inciting anti-Arab anti Palestinian, anti-Muslim hatred to discriminate against kamas. What are you saying? Exactly? Sort of like the argument that If you If you pass a crime bill that this is going to incite anti-black violence. Like I'm not the one saying that crime is black. And I'm not saying that terror is Muslim. I'm saying terror is terror and Hamas is kamas. But Rashida lib, these people do hold sway in this administration. They do. Which is why and the Washington Post and the media are fully in this camp. The Washington Post is truly a despicable publication, truly despicable.

2 (32m 19s):
They have a piece by a person named Yasin Ale in the Washington Post called Michigan's Arabs and Muslims pushed to defeat Biden in critical state. And this entire article is about how terrible Joe Biden is for supporting Israel and its war against Kamas Anaya like many Arab American and Muslim voters in Dearborn where Arab Americans make up a majority of the population. You'll remember them doing like a Palestinian march early on like before even Israeli retaliation for the terror attack in which there were actual terror flags being flown is resolved not only to withhold his vote from Biden but to emptively campaign against him. Some Michigan Arabs and Muslims have launched and abandoned Biden campaign part of a broader national movement still getting off the ground to ensure those in their community up to cast their vote but not for Biden.

2 (33m 1s):
So they're not gonna vote for Donald Trump obviously 'cause Trump is way more pro Israel than Joe Biden by every available metric. But they are going to yell at Joe Biden and Joe Biden is very scared of the yelling and so he has decided, apparently he and his state department are trying to decide on a new strategy, a new strategy for the Middle East. This strategy involves full scale surrender to terror organizations like full scale no stops surrender. We'll get to that momentarily first sup, y'all don't mean to flex on you. We all know I'm the number one rapper in the world thanks to facts by Tom McDonald and me. You know Jak, the notorious BEN Dr. dle, the leader of the Juu Tang clan.

2 (33m 41s):
Now it's no question that when I dropped on the scene with that fact hoodie, I ate No, no, no. Not like Lizzo but like my threads were fire If. you want your drip to be bus in my guy? You have to cop this hoodie immediately. No cap unless you're Jewish. When you wear this hoodie, you'll roast the left and riz the rest. The fact hoodie is on sale right now in The Daily Wire shop. So get out your dollar, dollar bills. Y'all stand up for the little hustlers like us stand up against the libs in the music industry. Go to Daily Wire dot coms slash shop to buy your facts. Hoodies today, the most coveted piece of clothing on the planet. Hurry, these hoodies are so goated with the sauce, they'll be sold out quicker than I spit bars. Okay, meanwhile, so what is Joe Biden's actual Middle Eastern policy now?

2 (34m 24s):
Now it's preemptive surrender. So the State Department is apparently now according to Barack Ravi reporting for Axios, the State Department is now being asked by the Secretary of State, Tony Blinken to conduct a review and present policy options on possible US and international recognition of a Palestinian state after the war in Gaza, according to two US officials briefed on the issue. That's insane. Lemme explain why that is insane. There is no government, the Palestinian authority does not even govern the West Bank. It has the approval of 0% of the Palestinian population by polling data is not zero, but it's very close to zero, which is why Mamba the 88-year-old Kleptocrat who has stolen billions of dollars from his own people. Same thing with Ismail Haniya over in Hamas land, who's living at five star hotels in Qatar.

2 (35m 6s):
While the rest of his people are living in rubble, but the Palestinian authority, it does not have the approval of its own people. Bach Abbas is currently in the, if my math is correct, 19th year of a four year term. The last election that was held was I believe 2006 in the West Bank and it was rigged in favor of Mahmud Basa that Hamas would not win and he's still serving as quote unquote president. He also happens to be a Holocaust denying Jew hater who has walked away from the table on multiple occasions when presented with a peace deal. Most recently by Ehud Omer, the most generous peace deal ever offered to the Palestinians. He simply walked away from the table. No counter offer. That is one party in the governing structure of the Palestinian off of the Palestinian areas, other governing structures, Islamic Jihad, a full-on terror group, Hamas, a full-on terror group.

2 (35m 54s):
There is no government, there's no government. Not only that, there is no territorial Border, no Border has been decided upon If. you take a look at the West Bank, it looks like an Andy Warhol painting. It's all over the place. The reason it's all over the place is 'cause you have intermixed populations because there had never been any sort of status settlement after the 67 war. Now remember between 1948 and 1967, the Arabs controlled the West Bank and the Gaza Strip Jordan controlled the West Bank. The Gaza Strip was controlled by Egypt. At no point did Egypt try to create a Palestinian state in the Gaza Strip. And at no point did Jordan try to create a Palestinian state in the West Bank. The Arabs don't care about a Palestinian state in any of these areas.

2 (36m 35s):
In fact, they know full well that if a Palestinian state were to be created in these areas, it would immediately be a terrorist state directed at them. The Jordanians are not really in favor of a pa, an independent Palestinian state governed by the Palestinian authority or Kamas. That is a direct threat to the Hashemite regime in Jordan. The Egyptians don't want a Palestinian state in the Gaza Strip. That's why they have a Border wall that makes Israel's border wall look like nothing at the so-called Rafa Gate down the border between Egypt and the Gaza Strip. In other words, a Palestinian state number one is in no one's interest in the region. Literally no one a PA including the Palestinians because their governing structure would not exist. It would be garbage and it would foment terrorism and lead to full scale war.

2 (37m 18s):
If a Palestinian state were actually to exist and then they were to attack Israel, Israel would have no humanitarian obligations at all because now you are at war directly with another sovereign state. At that point, all bets are off. Like the worst thing for the Palestinians would be to have a Palestinian state governed by either the PA or Hamas. There is no governing structure. So saying that you are going to preemptively declare a Palestinian state with no borders, no government representative of the people, no power, powerful enough to even govern the areas that are supposedly governed and no rationale for why this state would somehow make the world a better place, more solid. Why this place would be governed in allegiance to anything like fundamentally decent principles as opposed to just becoming a a, a horrifying Sharia law state, which is what Kamas wants for example.

2 (38m 6s):
What the hell is Joe Biden thinking? What the hell is he thinking? I mean, it's crazy. Not only is it stupid and morally benign, it also happens to be utterly unrealistic. I may as well declare a state of SHAPIRO stand somewhere in Southeast Asia. I don't have any territorial holdings there. I dunno what the borders are. There's no government that's approved by the people there. But sure, I mean, I why, why not? I mean sure, like we'll just declare a state of Shapiro stand. It has all of the same qualities as a quote unquote state of Palestine. No government, no government capable of holding territory, no government capable of governing people, and no rationale for existing per se, but sure, like it'll be great, it'll be great. By the way, notice the priorities here from the Biden administration.

2 (38m 46s):
Are we talking about an independent Kurdistan? I noticed not. Are we talking about an independent Somali land? I noticed not on, on the list of pe of peoples who deserve a state right now in the sense that the state will actually not be a threat to western interests and will not be a full on fomenting terror state. The Palestinian state idea comes like dead last. It's really low on that priority list. So why exactly is Joe Biden doing all this? And there are two reasons. One again, is to please his left wing domestic base. And the other reason is because the, the state department is filled with morons and these morons have a peculiar belief that If, you simply give terrorists what they want, then they will be nice to you and that somehow this will foment peace in the region reading.

2 (39m 29s):
The way among these morons is Thomas Friedman. Thomas Friedman is truly the stupidest person to write on foreign policy in my lifetime. It is not particularly close. Thomas Friedman's entire bag is what if I travel around and get whined and dined by random regimes and then write rosy rose colored glasses views of these awful regimes. He's done it with Iran, he did with China. I'll go all over the place. I'll be wine and dined by these various regimes and then I'll talk to taxi drivers and those taxi drivers will, will bestow their wisdom upon me. And then I will go and meet with Joe Biden and help define his foreign policy. So he has a piece today titled A Biden Doctrine for the Middle East is forming and it's big. So what exactly would this Biden doctrine be? He says on one track would be a strong and resolute stand on Iran, including a robust military retaliation against Iran's proxies and agents in the region in response to the killing of three US soldiers at a base in Jordan by a drone apparently launched by a pro Iranian militia in Iraq.

2 (40m 20s):
Okay, so that hasn't materialized at all. There has been no harsh response by the Biden administration to the murder of three American soldiers in Jordan. None. Zero. They're saying they're destroying like drone outlets. Yeah, we believe you. You have high levels of credibility. I'm sure that you've just Yeah, I'm sure, I'm sure you're not just hitting a camel in the ass or blowing up an empty building. I'm sure Joe Biden is, is taking harsh measures on the second track says Thomas Friedman would be an unprecedented US diplomatic initiative to promote a Palestinian state. Now it would involve some form of US recognition of a demilitarized Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip that would come into being only once Palestinians had developed a set of defined credible institutions and security capabilities to ensure that this state was viable and that it could never threaten Israel.

2 (41m 1s):
Oh, well, I mean under those conditions, I'm sure a Palestinian state being pursued right now is definitely going to happen when unicorns are farting energy. Sure. That, that seems like that's right around the corner. By the way, the, the message that Joe Biden and the State Department are sending right now, let's just look at the timeline here. Joe Biden and the State Department, we're not pushing the immediate recognition of a Palestinian state because it's idiocy. Then October 7th happened, 1200 Jews get murdered and now the Biden administration's like, what if we just give them what they want? So what, what does that say? What is the message? The message is If, you kill enough Jews, Joe Biden will give you a state. That is the actual message. The actual message is If, you murder enough Jews, Joe Biden will conciliate to your position.

2 (41m 42s):
How does that strengthen the West? Exactly. Seriously, how is that good for America? How is it good? Like, because the same logic would apply to Americans, presumably that if he kill enough Americans, Joe Biden will just give you what you want. This is the, this is the most appeasement oriented policy I've ever even remotely heard of Kamas murders, 1200 Jews. The Palestinian Authority has on its books laws that pay people who murder Jews. And the Biden administration is like, what if we uphold the U-N-R-W-A, which is the Kamas front group? What if we actually like give the Palestinian authority a state? What if we do all of those things? That'd be great. According to Thomas Friedman, Biden administration officials have been consulting experts inside and outside the US government about different forms of this recognition of Palestinian statehood might take.

2 (42m 23s):
Okay? So again, no expert can simply wish cast a Palestinian state that is moderate and not a threat to its neighbors into existence. They tried to wish cast it into existence during the Oslo chords. That was literally the Oslo chords. And for 30 years we've, we've operated in the Middle East under this delusion, and it's a stupid, asinine, foolish nin income pish idea. Ridiculous. On the third track, according to Thomas Friedman would be a vastly expanded US security alliance with Saudi Arabia, which would also involve Saudi normalization of relations with Israel. If the Israeli government is prepared to embrace a diplomatic process leading to a demilitarized Palestinian state led by a transformed Palestinian authority. Well, okay, again, when the rainbows fart, when when the unicorns fart rainbows, I guess that were there.

2 (43m 5s):
If the administration can pull this together, a huge, if a Biden doctrine could become the biggest strategic realignment in the region since the 19 7, 19 79 Camp David Treaty. Well, and, and if I could, and if I could somehow solve the problem of cold fusion energy would be free. Well, but by the way, what's amazing about Thomas Friedman's idiot plan, which is now being embraced again by the idiot Biden administration, I've used the word idiot here a lot, but truly these people are, are mentally deficient. The what what's so funny about this is that UN pursued two of these three tracks and was successful. Donald Trump, you know, who actually took harsh anti Iranian action? Donald Trump, he killed Kassem Soleimani, the head of the Al KUDs force. He put the harshest sanctions in American history on Iran. And you know what it did? It contained Iran.

2 (43m 45s):
He made it clear that if Iran crossed lines, they would get clocked in the face. And you know what Iran did? They shut up. Meanwhile, you'll recall the Trump administration made warm overtures toward the Saudis and toward the UAE and toward Bahrain and toward Morocco. And you know what they did? They all made peace with it. Israel and Saudi was gonna do it too. In other words, the centrality of the Palestinians to anything remotely like peace in the Middle East is not only a lie, it is a pernicious and counterproductive lie. But that's exactly what the Biden administration is now embracing. Why? Because they are so wedded to their own stupid foreign policy. They can't separate themselves from it, number one. And number two, they're getting blackmailed by their own voting base and they don't have the strength of character to recognize that actually not supporting terror regimes in the establishment of a state might be good policy.

2 (44m 32s):
Meanwhile, Elon Musk has come under fire because Elon Musk is not of the left, right? Elon Musk is the most creative entrepreneur of our time by far, which is why he's the richest man in the world. He started a multiplicity of unbelievably interesting companies, ranging from Tesla, which is a great company to SpaceX, which is, in my opinion even a greater company. He, he's, he's simply a singular figure in modern western life. He's, he's an incredible figure, which is why people are coming after him. They were all fine with him. He was, he was the entrepreneur who was interesting and fascinating and quirky and all of this stuff until the point he bought X as soon as he started making sounds that he liked free speech and wanted to open up the auspices of, of social media to various alternative opinions, the world came down around his ears.

2 (45m 20s):
And so what we are watching right now is a political bias against Elon Musk turn into a legal bias against Elon Musk, the legal system. When we talk about the legal system being perverted, I mean this is an actual perversion of the legal system. So according to Fox Business, a Delaware judge ruled in favor of Tesla investors who sued to challenge a $56 billion pay package for Elon Musk. The decision dares to bold legal where no man has gone before, or at least where no Delaware Court has tread the opinion states the collection of features. Characterizing Musk's relationship with Tesla and its directors gave him enormous influence over Tesla In her ruling, the judge said the plaintiff is entitled to rescission, meaning that the shareholders of Tesla sued to basically claw back a $56 billion pay package to Musk.

2 (46m 0s):
I'll get into the pay package in a second. 'cause obviously that's the biggest pay package anybody's ever heard of. Why did that happen? I'll get into that in a second. She directed the two parties to confer on a final form of order to implement her decision and submit a joint letter identifying all issues, including fees that need to be addressed to bring the matter to conclusion. At the trial level, she added that Tesla was unable to prove that the stockholder vote was fully informed because the proxy statement Inaccurately Deta described key directors as independent and Misleadingly omitted details about the process. Now, the problem is that the pay package that Musk negotiated with Tesla was widely derided at the time as basically empty verbiage that would never materialize because effectively speaking, Musk deferred all compensation to a future pay package tied to the increase in the stock valuation of Tesla plus earnings.

2 (46m 47s):
That's what happened, and everybody knew about it because it was the most widely remarked upon CEO. This is, this is the most widely remarked upon CEO pay package, literally in human history. So Tesla's agreement with Musk is the largest compensation ever provided to an executive. It's a major factor in making him one of the world's wealthiest individuals. So what happened is that he wasn't guaranteed any salary. This is commented upon by Andrew Ross Sorkin back in 2018, and here's what he wrote, just to make clear what the judge is doing. The judge just hates Musk and so has decided to screw him. But here's what, what actually happened here, quote, Tesla's, Elon Musk may have the boldest pay plan in corporate history. For the last several years, there's been speculation about Elon Musk's future at Tesla and whether he would step down as chief executive in the next year or two.

2 (47m 32s):
Mr. Musk stoked that speculation as far back as five years ago when he said he wanted to stay through the introduction of the model three. And then in 2014, he said, I'll have to see, you know, how things are going at that point. But the success of Musk's, various southern endeavors like SpaceX was only natural that investors would expect that the model for Robert Downey Jr's, Tony Stark, might move on to a different role at Tesla while it's four years later and Musk has now decided to stay. So for, for a decade, by the way, it was a decade long contract. This is 2018. So what exactly was the compensation plan again, Xander Ross Sorkin quote, Mr. Musk will be paid only if he reaches a series of jaw dropping milestones based on the company's market value and operations.

2 (48m 12s):
Otherwise, he will be paid nothing. So in other words, the compensation package that Musk is receiving was solely incentive based. It's not as though he signed a contract with Tesla with all of his friends where they just gave him $56 billion. At the time that all this happened, the valuation of Tesla total was $60 billion, 20 bucks a share. That was the valuation of Tesla. When they signed this deal, it was approved by 80% of Tesla's shareholders. The plan required him to grow market cap by $50 billion increments. With the first milestone starting at a hundred billion dollars valuation, the final milestone was $650 billion. So Elon Musk at a time when the company was evaluated in the public markets at $60 billion signed a contract saying, I only get my pay package if I hit 10.

2 (48m 59s):
If I, if I hit 11 x. Basically, if I take the current value of Tesla and multiply it by 11, then I get this pay package. Now, if you're a shareholder, like that's a great deal because if we hit that, I'm happy to pay him, and if we don't hit that, then we don't pay him. Great deal. Right? Would you make that deal with your boss today or with your company? Would you make the deal? You don't take any pay today. You, you defer all your wages. No, no payment of anything. But if your company increases by 11 times in value, then you get a big bonus, 11, not twice, not three times, 11 times in value. Would you take that deal? Very few people would. Musk is a re risk seeking guy and Tesla shareholders, they're like, again, what is the problem here?

2 (49m 41s):
This, this, this is a great deal. Tesla said, a dozen targets each $50 billion more than next, starting at a hundred billion than 150 than 200, all the way on to $650 billion. Also, the company said a dozen revenue and adjusted profit goals. Musk would receive 1.68 million shares or about 1% of the company only after he reaches milestones for both. But as Andrew Ross Sorkin wrote at the time, this is 2018. To put these numbers in perspective, Tesla is only worth about $59 billion today. If Muco is somehow able to increase the value of Tesla to $650 billion, a figure many experts would contend is laughably impossible and would make Tesla one of the five largest companies in the US based on current valuations. His stock award could be worth as much as $55 billion.

2 (50m 24s):
Musk's critics actually at the time complained that it was a publicity stunt, that there was no way he'd reach any of these numbers. And so the whole point of the exercise was to suggest that Tesla was bigger than it was. It's impossible for him to manipulate the system, said Andrew Ross Orkin, by trying to prop up the stock price for a temporary period, because even once his shares vest, he has to hold them for five years before he can sell them. So he can't actually like get the shares that are worth 56 billion and then immediately turn around and sell them and undercut the value of the company. Can't do that. So the judge struck down what is, again, one of the most risk laden pay packages in American history because Musk hit is Marx. That's insane. It's actually quite evil.

2 (51m 5s):
If. you take a risk and you benefit from that risk by benefiting all the shareholders to the extent that everybody who bought in at 20, this is a person who owned the person who started this, owned nine shares of Tesla nine, those shares of Tesla at the time that Musk signed this pay package, those shares of Tesla were priced at $20. Tesla shares today are trading at $188. You don't get to whine about that. I'm sorry. You do not. That's an absurd contention and just demonstrates once again, there are members of the judiciary who do not give any craps about property rights or the rule of law. Okay, in just one second, we'll get to social media hearings on the hill, which again, it, it's fascinating to see the sort of coalition that's built against big tech.

2 (51m 50s):
From the right, the critique makes sense From the left, the critique is really bad. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

PreBorn! (52m 4s):
Folks, last year, because of you, pre born's network of clinics saved over 58,000 babies. Thank you to everyone who made this possible. When Antoinette found out she was pregnant, she was in a terrible place. She didn't know how she could raise her child on her own. She searched for an abortion clinic, but God led her to a Preborn clinic where she was introduced to her baby on ultrasound and that changes people's lives. When she saw her baby and hurt its heartbeat, she broke down crying. The nurse gently reminded her, A child is a blessing and Antoinette chose life. Preborn saves 200 babies each and every day. For just 28 bucks a month, you can sponsor an ultrasound and help save a life. When a mom sees her baby on the ultrasound and hears their heartbeat, she's twice as likely to choose life. Just dial pound two 50. Say keyword baby. That's pound two five zero, baby. or visit preborn.com/ Ben. That's preborn.com/ Ben. My wife and I, we have four kids. We met all of them on ultrasound well before they were born. Give a mom the privilege of doing that today and help her choose life. Just dial pound two 50. Say keyword baby. That's pound two five zero, baby. or visit preborn.com/ Ben.