0 (0s):
So folks, we'll get to all the news in just one moment, but I have to tell you that today is for me a sad day. So a couple of days ago, fact by my friend Tom McDonald featuring me dropped from the top slot on iTunes right after the Grammys after 10 days of Pure Magic. It is still the number one rated hip hop song in America on iTunes, but Rap Hanukkah is officially over. And so with tears in my eyes, I have a big announcement to make to all the little homies who have been lifting me up since I began this journey. It was an inspiring moment. Some have called it a musical supernova, but now the time has come for me to walk away from my art.

0 (44s):
And so today I have to announce I'm Retiring from Rap to spend more time with my family. It's been real dogs. And never forget the music never dies, so long as the beat is in your heart. RIP, Dr. Dle, I know, I know that I've been getting a lot of sad messages from people, people who grew up with my music, people whose lives were changed by the, by the beats and by the flow. But you know, I've decided to leave the industry to a young generation of truly great artists, of truly great Rap artists.

0 (1m 27s):
Artists like Ice Spice, she of the rhyming name. So I have been informed reliably that Ice Spice is a human, and that Ice Spice also has a brand new charting song out. No, she has not surpass facts on the charts yet, but we can only hope that for the sake of Western civilization eventually she's widely appreciated by the masses in the way that she so richly deserves. So Ice Spice has a brand new song out, and the nature of this song is I think, quite deep and requires a bit of explication. you know, we've deconstructed the culture on this show before In fact. It was probably my extraordinary rendition of Wap that led eventually to my hip hop stardom, and then of course to my short-lived, but brilliant career in the industry.

0 (2m 14s):
And so we have to deconstruct a little bit of the culture that I am now leaving, because I gotta be honest, I was being drawn into, I mean, in that week, in that week where I was the top charting rapper in America, you know, I, I have to say, went to the clubs, sipping on some, Henny was wearing the bling. My wife, she was really getting into the lifestyle as well. But you know, I, again, I have to leave it to the pros, pros like Ice Spice, that was her given name when she came out of her mother. Her mother said, I shall call you Ice Spice. In any case, the name of her latest song is Think You the Fart. Yes, Idiocracy is real.

0 (2m 56s):
There are no words except for her own. And so I to you, the future of the hip hop industry, now that I'm no longer a part of it, iPic in, thank you, the fart.

1 (3m 9s):
Thank you. The, you not even the fart,

0 (3m 13s):
She's flipping people off

1 (3m 14s):
Hot. I'm breaking. They

0 (3m 17s):
Just working and

1 (3m 18s):
Be quick, but I'm quicker. Er,

0 (3m 23s):
Okay. It's just her twerking the whole video and other women's begging her on me,

1 (3m 28s):
Don't give a,

0 (3m 30s):
So if you can't understand what your, what she's saying, you're not alone. And so I will now do what I am most famous for doing when it comes to Rap. I'm going to read you the lyrics in a language we call English. Okay? And here is what she's saying. Thank you. The, you not even the fart rah, I'd be going hard, rah, I'm breaking they hearts like, be quick, but I'm quicker. Be thick, but I'm thicker. She could be rich, but I'm richer. Ah, the words of generation. I'm so glad that the industry remains in excellent hands like that of, of ice spice.

0 (4m 9s):
But you know, the, those words will live on forever. And from now on, if anyone ever, ever gets uppity with you, just tell them that. If they think they, the they're not, they're indeed the fart. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

ExpressVPN (4m 26s):
First, social media companies get to decide what content is suitable for the users on their platforms and sensor content they don't want on there. You should get to decide what you want to read or watch, not those people. Well, here's one thing. You can control their access to your data. For that I use Express VPN. The problem with big tech companies is that they not only censor what you read, but they also track what you do online, what you search for, the videos you watch, everything you click on, they use that data to serve you targeted ads and match your activity to your offline identity. Using your devices unique IP address. when I use Express VPN, these companies can't see my IP address at all. My identity is masked and anonymized by their secure VPN server. Plus Express VPN also encrypts 100% of your data to protect you from hackers. ExpressVPN software takes just one minute to set up on your computer or phone, and then with the tap of a button, you are protected. It's time to take back your privacy at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben. By visiting my special link, you'll get an extra three months of Express VPN service for free. And who doesn't like to save money? Ex PR ess vpn.com/ Ben. I've been using it myself for years to protect my online activity, and you should do the same. ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben protect your data today.

0 (5m 31s):
That wasn't actually the worst song that got released this week, believe it or not, in in the Rap industry. Another one challenging us for top slot on the Rap charts is a song that is called Bo Bo Bow or Bow Bow bow f My Baby Dad And apparently is an older song, you know, a classic from our friend Sexy Red, she of the multiple STD bouts, and she apparently did a rendition of this Rap f my baby dad at a hospital after having her latest baby, because nothing says lucky child. Quite like you're pushed outta mom and you're immediately making sexual videos in which you say f the dad of your child.

0 (6m 19s):
That's the, that that baby's gonna live. That that's a happy life for that kid getting, wow, wow. I'm just absolute cultural genius happening. I can't imagine why Tom McDonald and I rapped about the shortcomings of Rap culture because it seems like it's in like it's doing well. It seems like it's really incentivizing excellent behavior here. These pictures are insane, by the way. She's literally in the hospital bed and she is posing like ass out and like touching herself in the hospital bed. I, I got, I gotta say that the definition of sexy has radically changed in America. If people find this attractive in any way, shape, or form in any case, here is some of the video. She literally cut a music video from her hospital room after having a baby about f the baby dad.

0 (7m 7s):
Good stuff happening here.

2 (7m 10s):
My baby dad, my baby dad,

0 (7m 13s):
She's in a hospital and she's flinging around dollars in the hospital room, presumably not covered by insurance. She's t working on her hospital bed after having a baby points for durability, I suppose. So there, there's a, there's a lot to say here. One thing I will say is that if this lady doesn't get to take a maternity leave, then why does PE buttigieg get three months off for a paternity leave? I'm confused about that. I mean, she's back to work within like seconds. And by work I mean WERK work. So yeah, this is, this is solid stuff guys.

0 (7m 56s):
I know, I understand that I had a place in the Rap culture. I understand that I was an inherently important part of hip hop, but I have to, as I say, I have to leave it to the pros. The reason I spend time on this stuff, by the way, is I think folks need to understand, you know, we talk cover politics a lot on this show. The number of people who are drawn in by pop culture is insane. Pop cultural engagement in America is at levels not even remotely charted by politics. The number of people in America who watch politics is extraordinarily low. It's really, really, really low. In fact, if you look at the latest statistics with regard to, for example, news websites and political websites being visited, the answer is that the numbers are way down like way, way, way down since the last election cycle.

0 (8m 41s):
And if you look at big political events, for example, like the fifth Republican primary debate, that's 2.5 million viewers. Trump's competing town hall had about 4.3 million viewers aggregate all of that, and you're talking like 7 million viewers total. And then if you add in people on the other side of the aisle who politically engaged, you are talking a maximum of 15 to 20 million people who are politically engaged on anything like a regular level. And even those people aren't engaged the way that you probably are listening to the show listening every day, the number of people who will engage with content in pop culture is so much wider and so much, I, I speak as a charting artist, as the number one Rap artist in America as a hot 100 number 16 recipient on billboard, okay?

0 (9m 25s):
Without any radio plays. I speak as a great artist of my, of my genre. And let me tell you, pop cultural engagement is so much more important in terms of how young people think and the values that are shaped than actual baseline politics. That's why we spend time on it. It's why we've done deconstructing the culture before and it's why it sort of matters that garbage is being pervade every day by people like Ice Spice and Sexy Red as our culture gets dumber and dumber and stupider and stupider, okay? Meanwhile, on the political side of the aisle, there's a lot happening. So I have to say that Donald Trump's takeover of the Republican Party. There have been some interesting things about it. I liked a lot of his policy as president, but one of the negative things about having a singular figure atop the political pile for any party is that there is a tendency to follow them to stupid places.

0 (10m 13s):
And today, I have two examples from President Trump. Example number one, president Trump came out yesterday and he suggested that conservatives go back to buying Bud Light. Now you'll recall that it was just last year that Bud Light decided that they were going to sponsor as a, as a face of their brand. Dylan Mulvaney, a man who mocks womanhood by pretending to be a girl and they made a Bud Light beer can and all this. And people like this, like us at this show, my friend Matt Walsh, The Daily Wire personalities, pretty much everybody on the right said, okay, well we're not gonna buy Bud Light, first of all tastes like horse piss. And then beyond that, it actually is promoting values that we don't like. It's a great American brand.

0 (10m 53s):
Bud Light, not, not Anheuser-Busch, which is now foreign owned, but the actual Bud Light brand is a deeply American intertwined brand, and they are sacrificing their brand, which is basically blue collar people in favor of upper class trans politics. And it's stupid and it's bad and it's bad for the country. And so we're not gonna drink Bud light anymore. And Bud Light took it directly on the chin. Their sales went directly through the floor and they are, they were In fact reduced to not the number one beer, but the number two or number three beer Modelo actually overtook them. For example, well now President Trump is calling for an end to the boycott on Bud light, which makes no sense. If you have a successful boycott, if you successfully destroyed a large brand in order to make a political point, you then don't undss destroy the brand before they've actually apologized for the thing.

0 (11m 40s):
Now Bud Light is trying to make some sort of a renaissance to the other side of the aisle, to our side of the aisle on the conservative side by going and contracting with say, Dana White over at the MAI like Dana, I'm friends with Dana, but the, the attempt to sort of buy back conservative love by hiring Dana, that doesn't make up for what you did in the first place when you spit in the face of all of your consumers. Well now Donald Trump is calling for an end to the boycott. He put out an a a a missive last night on truth social. He said the Bud light ad was a mistake of epic proportions and for that a very big price was paid. But Anheuser-Busch is not a woke company. Anheuser-Busch is a great American brand that deserves a second chance. What do you think? Perhaps instead, we should be going after those companies that are looking to destroy America.

0 (12m 24s):
Now, why would he do that? Why What? Why? What would drive President Trump one of the most vindictive voices in the history of American politics? So you suddenly decide that it's time for forgiveness for Bud light? Well, it could be the fact that apparently he owns about $5 million in Anheuser-Busch stock. It could also be the fact that a top Republican lobbyist for the company is hosting a fundraiser for Trump next month with some tickets going at $10,000 each. So maybe it's that Donald Trump Jr. Has also previously defended Anheuser-Busch saying the company donated more to Republicans than Democrats and helped Kevin McCarthy's effort to assume control of the house. Now, as my friend Matt Walsh says, this is the most effective boycott probably in the history of conservative politics. Why would you end it on the basis of Donald?

0 (13m 5s):
Trump just says So we get some more on this in just one second.

Blinds.com (13m 7s):
First, we all have that weird neighbor, you know, the one who has a rusty car with a tarp over it. And that car hasn't been started in like 15 years. Or the guy who just so happens to be outside every time you're in a rush to get somewhere and then insists on having you look over his hydrangeas. Well, this is why I use blinds.com with over 40,005 star reviews. blinds.com is the number one online retailer of custom window coverings. You can measure and install them yourself or have blinds.com send local professionals to take care of the installation for you. There's no showroom, no retail markets, and no matter how many you order, installation is just one low cost. If you don't have an eye for design blinds.com, experts are always available to help choose the style and color that's right for you. Everything they sell is covered by their perfect fit and 100% satisfaction guarantee with hundreds of styles and colors to choose from. blinds.com is sure to have the perfect treatments for your windows shop blinds.com. Right now save up to 45% off, get up to 45% off for a limited time@blinds.com. When you check out online, don't forget to tell them you heard about blinds.com from The Ben Shapiro Show rules and restrictions may apply.

0 (14m 6s):
by the way, Caitlyn Jenner of all people is signing on to the chat to also call for an end to the Anheuser-Busch boycott. He says, quote, as someone that worked for this incredible American company and got to know them very well, I race for Anheuser-Busch in the eighties. I agree with Donald Trump. Look at what the company does. For so many Americans in their track record over the years, they made a huge mistake and it paid a large price. I think it is time to move forward. I'm saying we should focus on the big picture agreeing with 45. The big picture is 45, of course is President Trump, who's the 45th president. The big picture is not agreeing with President Trump. It's never been agreeing with President Trump. I agree with President Trump when President Trump deserves to be agreed with, and I disagree with President Trump when he deserves to be disagreed with. This would be one case where he deserves to be disagreed with.

0 (14m 48s):
There's another case where he deserved to be disagreed with and that was on Ronna Romney McDaniel. So let me tell you the tragic story of Ronna Romney McDaniel who now goes by Ronna McDaniel. The reason she goes by Ronna McDaniel, this is not a joke, is because Ronna Romney McDaniel, who is In fact related to MIT Romney, of course she used to go by she, she's his knees. She used to go by Ronna Romney McDaniel. And then it turned out that when she became RNC chair and Donald Trump was the leader of the Republican Party, she dropped the Romney because Trump hated Romney so much because that's the kind of OBA that is demanded by many people who really love Trump and Trump himself, is that you have to somehow drop actual parts of your name because he doesn't like your uncle, which is wild and it's wild.

0 (15m 40s):
Either shows a good job or does a bad job. And then it turned out she did a crappy job. Ronna or Romney. McDaniel is historically the single worst RNC chair of my lifetime, the only possible exception being Michael Steele. She's a terrible RNC chair, truly a horrifyingly, bad RNC chair. In fact, her tenure as RNC chair, which began January 19th, 2017, she was proceeded by Ryan's previs who ended up going into the administration briefly when she assumed office in 2017, she assumed office with Donald Trump having a house majority and a Senate majority. That was the state of plague when she took office, she then proceeded to lose the house in 2018 and she proceeded to lose the house and the Senate in 20 20, 20 21.

0 (16m 25s):
And then she proceeded to wildly underperform in the 2022 election cycle. And now the RNC is flat broke. The RNC has no money in the bank. So she has sacrificed whatever principle she had, including the political principle that the RNC should be involved in choosing candidates on the primary level who can win, and then raising money for those candidates and then boosting them to victory. Instead. She basically just said that Trump could have free reign of the place. So much so that the RNC, anytime there was a conflict inside the Republican party between Trump and any other candidate in the primaries, not in the primaries. With regards to the Senate, with regard to the House, the RNC always sided with Trump because McDaniel knew where her bread was buttered. And unsurprisingly, bunch of losses, huge string of losses for Romy McDaniel to the point where after the November, 2022 elections where Republicans by pulling data were supposed to clean up, Republicans were supposed to win a broad majority in 2022, but the RNC didn't do its job.

0 (17m 19s):
The RNC is a vehicle for victory. One of its jobs is to work with the senatorial Republican Campaign Committee and the NRCC, the National Republican Campaign, congressional Campaign Committee, and all the rest of these groups in order to select good primary candidates, particularly in purple districts and purple states, in order to boost them to victory. And the RNC completely abdicated the RNC instead spent a spent a bunch of money on perks and flowers and nice dinners and limos. And then the 2022 elections were a full scale disaster area in which the Republicans not only did not regain the Senate, they ended up retaking the house by like a handful of votes. And that handful of votes is so small that Republicans can no longer do literally anything in the House of Representatives without making serious concessions to Democrats.

0 (18m 2s):
That was all Ronna Romney McDaniel. So in January of 2023, in the period between November, 2022 and January, 2023, there was a serious effort to oust Rona Romney, McDaniel In fact. You'll recall that right after the election in November, 2022, I openly called on the show for the replacement of Rona Romney McDaniel because you don't get to lose this many times and still retain your job at any job if you, if you fail over and over, you fail once. Okay, that's called life. You failed twice. Okay, maybe you need a serious corrective, you fail three times. Now you're starting to look pretty bad. You failed four times, you should lose your job. And you failed 20 18, 20 20, 20, 21, 20 22.

0 (18m 45s):
You failed four times, four separate times, just complete failure. And now no money in the bank and the nominee of the party for good or ill is the person who basically put her in place. Donald Trump endorsed her again to become the RNC chair over harm Di, who's a far more credible, far more serious candidate. you know, full disclosure harm Dill has acted as our lawyer ensuing the federal government, for example here at DailyWire. Harmit is great. There's some other people who've been talked about as RNC Chair, who'd be good. So now Donald Trump, a couple of weeks ago after having boosted McDaniel back into place just in time for the primaries, where the RNC, every time it could put its thumb on the scale for Donald Trump. Now that she bent the knee to Trump in every which way, literally took Romney out of her name, bent the RNC to Trump's will at every possible point.

0 (19m 31s):
Now Trump is going full Joffrey and cutting off her head. So now she's going to be out of a job. This is again, directly after she was endorsed by Trump and one reelection as RNC chair. She's now Rona Romney McDaniel is is gone. She's expected to leave. According to the Washington Post quote, Ronna Romney, Ronna McDaniel is expected to leave her job this spring. After former President Donald Trump had increasingly grown critical of her leadership according to people familiar with the matter. Oh, did he? You mean after she insured that he got everything that he could possibly want in 20 18, 20 20, 20 21, 20 22, and 2023. So basically she did everything Trump could have possibly wanted.

0 (20m 12s):
Now he's de fenestrating her so that he can blame her for all the problems with the RNC, despite the fact that again, he boosted her to that position. We tomorrow on this in just one second.

Bambee (20m 18s):
First, when you're running a business, your employees can create all kinds of interesting situations like somebody not showing up when they're supposed to, or an employee filing a complaint for which you don't have a documented policy or procedure. This is why you need Bambi. Bambi gives you access to your own dedicated HR manager starting at just 99 bucks a month. This person is available to you by phone, email, in real time chat. They'll help you run employee onboarding, terminations and performance reviews. With Bambi's HR Autopilot feature, you can automate important HR practices like employee training and feedback procedures. All of Bambi's HR managers are based in the United States and can support the nuances across all 50 states. HR managers can easily cost 80 grand a year, but bam Bee starts at just 99 bucks a month. Schedule a free conversation today, see how much BAM bee can take off your plate. Go to bam bee.com right now. Type Ben Shapiro under podcast when you sign up so they know we sent you spelled B-A-M-B-E e.com. Bam bee.com type in Ben Shapiro right now to get started.

2 (21m 11s):
Again, it's, I'm glad she's leaving. She was incompetent. She did a bad job. The only point that I'm making is that you should agree with Donald Trump when it's good to agree. I agree with him about ousting. Ronald Romney McDaniel. I also agreed about ousting her before she was even the RNC chair. And I disagreed with Donald Trump when he was attempting to foist her into place. The decision came as she visited Mar-a-Lago and met with Trump on Monday. But the situation remained fluid according to people who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

0 (21m 40s):
The news of her departure was first reported by the New York Times, which reported it was likely to occur after the South Carolina primary on February 24th. She was expected to serve until 2025, but has considered leaving for months. Her relationship with Trump soured over the Republican primary debates featuring his challengers this past fall. Trump wanted her to cancel them and she declined. So she provided so much fuel to him. I mean, she really did during the primaries is she didn't force him to sign any pledge thing. He'd vote for the other candidates despite the fact that she wanted all the other candidates to pledge they'd vote for Trump if In fact, he won the nomination. She made room for him at every possible turn, but she wouldn't just outright hand him the primaries and he got pissed at her and now he wants her out and now she's leaving.

0 (22m 20s):
The point of the matter is that if you wish for good policy to emerge from Donald Trump or anyone else, that doesn't mean listening to Trump all the time. It doesn't mean listening to Trump. When he says end the Bud light boycott, it doesn't mean listening to Trump when he tries to boost Ronna McDaniel back to the RNC chairmanship in January of 2023. It means sometimes he's right and sometimes he's wrong, and you're an independent human being and he should have your own thoughts on matters. And you shouldn't just follow any politician or people like me, anyone, literally, anyone blindly. You should actually think about these things and then decide whether or not it meets with your principles. Okay? Meanwhile, speaking of the consequence of having a very narrow house majority, yesterday, the house voted on impeaching Alejandro Mayorkas, the Secretary of Homeland Security. Now to be fair to the Republican Congress, people who voted against impeaching Alejandro Mayorca, no high crime or misdemeanor was actually alleged.

0 (23m 7s):
Okay? So there are some members of the House who argued against Donald Trump's impeachment, including Mike Gallagher of Wisconsin. He's a really good representative. I know Mike, I like Mike. Okay, Mike Gallagher voted against impeaching mayorca. Why? Because he said, listen, I voted against Donald Trump's impeachment because no crime was alleged here. No crime is alleged. So I'm also voting against impeachment. Now, the reason I would've voted for impeachment if I were in the house, and the reason why I think it was good that people voted for impeachment is because impeachment is obviously a political tool. Impeachment has obviously become a political tool. Trump was impeached twice without any serious high crime or misdemeanor even being charged in the, in the impeachment documents. And so now that that's what it is, everybody's fair game because if the rules apply one way for Democrats and another way for Republicans, then there are no rules, no double standards, okay?

0 (23m 54s):
So if impeachment is a political tool, all then it should be a political tool all the way. And then we can make a deal and we'll go back to status quo entity where you only get impeached for actual impeachable offenses. But until then you cross the line and we'll treat it just like a political remedy. In any case, the reason that the Republicans couldn't get together a house majority is because their house majority was so narrow. So that goes back to the 2022 elections in which the intervention of the RNC and Donald Trump and bad candidates ended up blowing the possibility of a Republican 15 or 20 seat house majority. And Republicans ended up with a tiny slim tiny house majority. And then of course, George Santos was just ousted by Congress, which left them with one fewer Republican vote.

0 (24m 35s):
And so the house ended up voting two 16 to two 14 against impeaching Alejandro Mayorca. Only four Republicans voted in favor of keeping mayorca or not impeaching him. The Republicans who voted against the impeachment resolution said that mayor's conduct did not rise to the level of impeachable offense. This is what Tom McClintock said. So to McClintock, by the way, is a, is a border hawk. Tom McClintock in California, he is not some sort of of border dove easy on immigration or anything. He just said the same thing that Gallagher said. He said the impeachment articles failed to identify an impeachable crime that Mayorca has committed. Democrats were accusing Republicans of trying to score political points, which of course is true, but that's exactly what they were doing when they impeached Donald Trump.

0 (25m 15s):
Twice, representative Ken Buck of Colorado indicated another vote could take place. Once the house majority leader Steve Scalise returns to work. Scalise has been working remotely as he undergoes cancer treatment. In the end, probably Americas will be impeached. They do have enough votes to do it, but barely. So the Democrats did wheel in people who were literally sick to try to get the vote to turn in favor of America's representative. Al Green tried to vote on a second resolution targeting Mayor Orcas. But he backed off after receiving assurances from house leaders that the earlier effort proceeded to committee level and then he was actually wheeled in 'cause he was sick to vote against impeaching Mayor Orcas.

0 (25m 56s):
We'll get to more on this in just one second.

ZipRecruiter (25m 57s):
First, our friends and ZipRecruiter conducted a recent survey. They found the top hiring challenge employers face for 2024 is a lack of qualified candidates If you're an employer and need to hire, the good news is ZipRecruiter has smart tools and features that help you find more qualified candidates quickly. And right now you can try it for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire as soon as you post your job. ZipRecruiter's powerful matching technology shows you candidates who skills and experience match what you're looking for. ZipRecruiter has an invite to apply feature so you can send top candidates a personalized invite to encourage them to respond to your job post. When you use ZipRecruiter's rating tool, they'll send you more matches from new profiles that are created on the side. Let ZipRecruiter help you conquer the biggest hiring challenge of finding qualified candidates. See why four out five employers who post on ZipRecruiter will get a quality candidate within the very first day. Just go to this exclusive web address right now. Now, Try ZipRecruiter for FREE at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Again, that is ZipRecruiter dot com slash D-A-I-L-Y-W-I-R-E. ZipRecruiter is indeed the smartest way to hire. Check them out at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire.

0 (26m 57s):
So bottom line is, does this damage Republicans anyway? No, I mean it just looks again like Republicans can't count votes. But we've known that for quite a while and and yet another element of Republican stupidity, it turns out that banging your head against the wall does not end up being very good strategy. They got rid of Kevin McCarthy. As I said at the time, like McCarthy or hate McCarthy, McCarthy knew how to count votes. you know what's happening now. Nobody knows how to count votes and the deals aren't getting any better. So slow clap for all the people who thought getting rid of Kevin McCarthy was gonna fix the problems in Congress, okay? But in the end, do Americans, as we say, watch politics at this granular level or they care about how the impeachment vote goes or any of that? No, they just get a general sense. They get a sort of general gestalt of the election and then they vote accordingly.

0 (27m 40s):
And the general gestalt right now is that the border is a disaster area and Joe Biden is the president. And so republicans who are not passing this bad border bill, they're winning a political victory right now. The media are trying to turn this into, Republicans won't pass a border bill to give Joe Biden the authority he needs. But the border was considered a non-pro by Democrats until this very moment. So just to follow the Democrat logic for a moment, the border is not a problem at all. But if you don't give Joe Biden extra power to shut down the border, that's when the crisis emerges. I'm gonna need an explainer on that. If the border was in crisis, why isn't Joe Biden doing something about it? He has the authority to do so already as everyone legally acknowledges. Joe Biden, however, is trying to play the hand that he has dealt himself again, he could just shut the border and take the issue away from Trump.

0 (28m 25s):
But he's afraid of ticking off that left wing base. And so now he's trying to blame Republicans for all of this. He says the border isn't secure because of Trump and his friends. This is, this is not going to play at all in any way, shape or form. This is why he's 30 points behind Trump on immigration

3 (28m 38s):
Every day between now and November, the American people are gonna know that the only reason the border is not secure is Donald Trump and his MAGA Republican friends.

0 (28m 49s):
So no, that is not going to work if you really think that MAGA is keeping the border open, that's wrong. Joe Biden is the president of the United States then Joe Biden was suggesting the Republicans need to show some spine and pass the bill. We all know what's going to happen if that happens. If Republicans pass the bill, the border will remain largely open because Joe Biden will make sure that it remains largely open. And then he will claim that he's been able to create a bipartisan deal to create responsibility at the border. And then he will go to his left and say that he basically put one over on Republicans and whatever are the future border problems will be co-owned by the Republicans. That's the politics of this. Why do you think Democrats are so desperate to pass this thing? The reason that Democrats are desperate to pass this thing is because they see it as a political win.

0 (29m 32s):
Here was Joe Biden trying to force Republicans into voting for it. It's not going to happen.

3 (29m 37s):
Now all indications are this bill won't even move forward to the Senate floor. Why a simple reason Donald Trump? Because Donald Trump thinks it's bad for him politically, therefore he doesn't, even though it helped the the country, he's not for it. He'd rather weaponize this issue than actually solve it. So for the last 24 hours, he's done nothing I'm told. But reach out to Republicans in the House and the Senate and threaten them and try to intimidate them to vote against this proposal. And it looks like they're caving. Frankly. They owe it to the American people to show some spine and do what they know to be right.

0 (30m 18s):
I mean, I, I gotta say there are two problems with this. Number one is the argument. The other is that I swear Joe Biden at this point, he looks no joke like Julian Glover as Walter Donovan at the end of Indiana Jones and the holy grail, he looks like he drank from, he chose poorly. Literally every video of him is a state of further physical and mental degradation. He's degrading before our eyes. Everyone can see it. It's impossible not to see it. by the way, Joe Biden is admitting by the way, the bill will actually allow people to enter the country more quickly. Like we all know what the real agenda is here.

0 (30m 58s):
Here's President Biden admitting this yesterday.

3 (31m 1s):
This bill would also establish new, efficient and fair process for the government to consider an asylum claim for those arriving at the border today. The process can take five to seven years, as you all know. They show up at the border, get a bracelet told to come back when called five to seven years. Now in country that's too long and it's not rational. With the new policies in this bill and the additional of 4,300 more asylum officers who spend hours I might add with each immigrant to consider their claims, whether they qualify will be able to reduce that process to six months, not five to seven years,

0 (31m 43s):
Okay? Again, he's trying to reduce the time period between when you apply for refugee status and when you are granted refugee status. His goal is to get more people into the country, not fewer people into the country. The only thing that the bill does that is presumably good is it changes the definition of asylum. In order to have a legitimate asylum claim, you now not only have to claim that you fear to go back to your home country, you have to have some sort of credible fear that you cannot, such that you cannot relocate inside your home country or in any country that you have passed through before. But how do you establish that sort of thing? Like seriously? Do you think that Joe Biden and his processing centers, people are gonna come and they're just gonna say that? They're just gonna say, I can't move inside my home, home country 'cause people are pursuing me.

0 (32m 23s):
How do you confirm that? Then they're going to say, Mexico isn't accepting me in order to live there and the gangs are following me and there's no place I can go. And then they just say new magic words. So listen, I get why Border patrol agents, some of them are in support of the bill. They think that it gives them some additional tools if they're allowed to do their job. But I think they're assuming that Joe Biden's going to allow them to do their job. And that is an assumption as we say in the law, not in evidence. Okay? Meanwhile, Joe Biden has tied all of these issues together. He has tied his version of the border bill together with Ukraine aid, together with Israel aid, which is kind of amazing because he doesn't have to do that. It demonstrates his failure of the power of the, of the bully pulpit.

0 (33m 5s):
If Joe Biden actually had any level of popularity, he could probably force each of these jsu through one at a time. Let's say that he wanted Ukraine aid, he could probably force that through. He could make an argument to the American people. He could say, listen, Ukraine is gonna be overrun by Russia. If we don't give them the aid, then Vladimir Putin is gonna be standing in Kiev by the end of the year. We, they need the aid. Most of the aid is gonna go toward paying our military contractors anyway. We need to restock our supplies and all the rest. He could say all that sort of stuff, but he can't because he is really, really unpopular. And so he's trying to lump that together with a significantly more popular proposition, which is aid to Israel. In fact, he came out yesterday and said he would not even sign off on an independent aid to Israel Clean Bill, which is totally crazy.

0 (33m 46s):
He says he wants that. He's the one who proposed it. He's saying he wants $14 billion in military aid to Israel and $10 billion for the other side. He wants $10 billion in. So-called humanitarian aid de Gaza say, so-called his kamas and terrorists hijack a huge num, a huge amount of that, and then use it for weaponry. That's what he says he wants. So the Republicans are like, okay, fine, we'll give you 14 bill for Israel and no 10 bill for Gaza and no 60 bill for Ukraine. And Biden's like, oh, veto that. He has to tie everything together. He has to turn it into a crap sandwich. It's his only hope of passing his main priorities at this point. We'll get to the situation in Ukraine in just one second.

Daily Wire Plus (34m 21s):
First, I need your attention. We have a major announcement. Mark your calendars, the Epic return of Backstage after almost a year away filming the Pen Dragon Cycle. Jeremy Boring is back. He has joined by Matt Walsh, Candace Owens, Michael Knowles, Andrew Klavin, and of course me. Join us this Tuesday, 7:00 PM Eastern, 6:00 PM Central. As we go behind the scenes and beyond the headlines, there is a lot happening. You're not gonna wanna miss a minute, watch the show, live exclusively at Daily Wire Plus Tuesday night at 7:00 PM Eastern, 6:00 PM Central. You're not gonna want to miss it.

0 (34m 48s):
Okay? Meanwhile, the situation in Ukraine continues to be rather dire. Best reports suggest that Russia is going to mobilize another all out assault on Ukraine sometime later in the year. And as Western support for UK Ukraine declines, Ukrainians are very much in fear that Keith theoretically could be overrun. According to Ukrainian media, the Ukrainian Parliament has now passed a law approving a presidential decree to extend martial law in Ukraine for another 90 days from February 14th until May 13th. Apparently, this is basically a unanimous legislative act because of course, the country is still In fact at war. And all of this is again coming to a head, not just because the United States is unlikely to grant $60 billion in AIDS Ukraine based on the current voting constituency in the House of Representatives, but also because Tucker Carlson is now jetsetting over to Moscow to interview Vladimir Putin.

0 (35m 39s):
We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Food For The Poor (35m 41s):
First, during this new year, it's important to slow down and think about how we can lift up and help others. Thankfully, there is a company that dedicates everything to helping the less fortunate that is Food for the Poor. For over 40 years, food for the Poor has served communities throughout the Caribbean and Latin America through a network of trusted ministry partners and local churches, food for the poor, supplies, non-perishable food items and protein rich meals to children and families suffering from hunger. Many businesses and informal economies like day labor and local markets have eliminated jobs or closed permanently, leaving many parents with no way to earn money. Local ministry partners, feeding centers, hospitals and schools are experiencing rising numbers of malnourished kids with the help of their generous donors. Food for the poor is able to provide food, housing, healthcare, education, fresh water, emergency relief, and much more. So how can you help? Well, thanks to a meal for a meal match, a donation of 80 bucks can feed two children for an entire year. 160 bucks would feed four children, 320 bucks would feed eight children. Your generous gift today changes how Families View Tomorrow. Donate now by texting plate to 5 1 5 5 5, or by visiting food for the poor.org/ Shapiro. That's plate to 51 5 5 5 or food for the poor.org/ Shapiro.

0 (36m 48s):
So here was Tucker confirming that he's interviewing Putin, and here he was explaining why he's doing it.

4 (36m 54s):
We're in Moscow Tonight, we're here to interview the president of Russia. Vladimir Putin will be doing that soon. Almost three years ago, the Biden administration illegally spied on our text messages and then leaked the contents to their servants in the news media. They did this in order to stop a Putin interview that we were planning last month. We're pretty certain they did exactly the same thing once again, but this time we came to Moscow. Anyway, we are not here because we love Vladimir Putin. We are here because we love the United States. We want to remain prosperous and free.

0 (37m 28s):
Okay? So the entire, the entire case that he is making is that you're not getting the full information and that we need an interview with Putin. Okay, that, that's all fine, Andy. I mean, I'm, I'm fine with anybody interviewing Putin. Hell, I'd love to interview Putin. Good for Tucker. Forgetting the interview. you know, I, I will say that the only thing that's going to matter about this interview are the questions that he asks, meaning that if he goes in and he basically just allows Putin to spout about deification efforts in Ukraine and about how Ukraine is actually a country that is filled with wild left liberals who are promoting L-G-B-T-Q values, but they're also Nazis and that's why he's invading and that's why he needs to take out Vladimir Zelensky or whatever that will not In fact be a public service that will not In fact be information that is added to the information that people need to hear.

0 (38m 13s):
The, the questions that need to be asked obviously are, what are the off-ramps? Why are you holding American journalists like Evan Kovich in jail? Why, why is that a thing? Well, Tucker says in this video that nobody has, has actually wanted to interview Putin. That's not true. I mean, a huge number of people have requested interviews with Putin in the legacy media. Putin just hasn't granted any because he feels that the legacy media in the United United States are very much opposed to him. And there's truth to that, I think for some pretty good reasons. Number one, that Vladimir Putin has sort of a nefarious history of having his political enemies jailed and or poisoned and or pushed off of buildings. But in any case, if Tucker wants to provide another side to the conflict so that we can all get more information, that'll be great.

0 (38m 55s):
But we're only gonna know exactly how that goes once the interview actually airs. I'm not gonna prejudge the interview. I certainly have no problem with Tucker interviewing Vladimir Putin. I hope he doesn't do the same thing that he actually did with Kanye West when he had on Kanye on his show. And proceeded to cut out all of the craziest sections of the interview with Kanye when she was spouting, even at the time, while anti-Semitic kind of stuff. And Tucker cut it out and then put out the interview with Kanye and it made Kanye look like he was a lot more sane than he actually was at that time. you know, again, I think Tucker is a super smart guy. I think that he does care about the country, and I would love to hear him ask some really solid questions of Vladimir Putin.

0 (39m 35s):
So I'm not, so I'm, we'll see how it goes. I will say that the Kremlin is expecting that they know how it goes according to D-N-Y-U-Z. Carlson's trip is exciting. A lot of people over at the Kremlin on Tuesday, Alex Benedict, the former editor of Echo Moscow radio station, said, as I understand, Tucker Carlson got what he wanted. Apparently a source close to the presidential administration told the Moscow Times Tucker has been expected here for a long time. He is welcome here to underscore the depth of Carlson's commitment to the Russian cause at state media programs pointed out that in America, he's called out as a traitor, and his strip is being compared to Jane Fonda's visit to Vietnam in 1972.

0 (40m 16s):
Now, again, the, it's not like Jane Fonda unless he's actually a propagandist for the Kremlin. So, let's see, I I, I don't wanna prejudge anything until I've seen it. I'm not gonna prejudge Tucker's interview. I know a lot in the media are already doing that. I'm not going to do that until I see the questions that he asked. It's a massive opportunity, obviously. Could it have an impact in theoretically opening eyes to the possibility of a future solutions? Sure. Could it also be a propaganda interview or good? I mean, presumably that's why Putin is doing it. Apparently, during an interview with the evening with Vladimir SV political scientist, sergeev said a few words about Tucker since he's a popular figure. He says, if Tucker dares to broadcast this interview in the United States, first and foremost, this will blow up their informational blockade from within.

0 (41m 3s):
He said that an interview with Putin will have some interesting consequences. It will blow them up into pieces. This is the United States. And then he said, God willing, there will be a civil war in the United States because of it. Now, again, I think there's some wishful thinking on the part of some Russian propagandist, but it's worth, you know, pointing out that the only thing that's important about an interview is the content of the interview, not just the faces of the people who are in the interview. And by the way, the United States does have a very strong interest in Ukraine, not actually just becoming a Russian protectorate. I I've said since the, since near the beginning of the war, that the solution to this conflict was going to be in simply recognizing the frozen battle lines that are already present in the Donbass and in Crimea.

0 (41m 46s):
The areas of the Donbass that are currently occupied by Russia and in Crimea that are currently occupied by Russia are largely Russian speaking. Those are areas in which Vladimir Zelensky did not win when, when it came to the last election cycle. And those are areas that didn't vote, some of them in the last election cycle because they'd already been occupied by Russia in 2014. But those are areas that did not voted for the, the more European minded did Ukrainian politicians, they'd already voted for more pro-Russian politicians in those areas, those conflicts are not likely to be undone. Those areas are not likely to become sovereign Ukrainian territory again anytime soon. The battle lines have not moved for a year. And so the idea of the off ramp is American and European security guarantees to Ukraine, more military material put in to prevent a future invasion and setting of the, of the final lines, kind of where they are right now.

0 (42m 39s):
Everyone knows that's a solution. The question I hope Tucker asks Putin is, is that a solution for you? Right? Because otherwise there's no off ramp and it just continues. Putin is counting on the West to just get tired eventually, just give him Kyiv. That's effectively what Putin is waiting for right now. Okay? Meanwhile, Gina Carrano, our friend, who of course starred in Terror on the Prairie for us, we hired her after she was fired from the Mandalorian for the great sin of saying that people should not dehumanize one another. That's really why she was fired from the Mandalorian. She put up a meme saying essentially that othering ends with murder, which is, I thought, kind of a mainstream point of view. In any case, they fired her, we hired her, and she was in Terror on the Prairie, and it was sort of a big win for everyone.

0 (43m 19s):
Now Gina is suing the Walt Disney Company. So according to Deadline Hollywood, three years after Corona was axed by then, Bob Chape run Disney for comparing the political climate in America to Nazi Germany. That's not what she was doing. Corona sued Disney and the Star Wars shingle Lucas film for dropping her from the Bounty Hunter series. And X is paying, Elon Musk is actually paying for her lawyers because Elon is, I love it. According to the complaint quote, A short time ago in a galaxy not so far away, defendants made it clear that only one orthodoxy in thought, speech, or action was acceptable in their empire. And that those who dared to question or failed to fully comply would not be tolerated. And so it was with Carrano, the rule of law still reigns over to the defendant's empire. Carrano has returned to the man and they be held accountable for their bullying, discriminatory, and retaliatory actions.

0 (44m 2s):
Actions that inflicted not only substantial emotional harm, but millions of dollars in lost income. Now, you'll recall that it was in February, 2021, not long after she had been in the Mandalorian, that they put out a scathing statement on their business with her. They said, Gina Carrano is not currently employed by Lucasfilm. There are no plans for her to be in the future. Nevertheless, her social media post denigrating people based on their cultural and religious identities are abhorrent and unacceptable. by the way, there was no social media post denigrating anyone based on cultural or religious identity at all. So she says, defendants also discriminated against Corona by treating her differently from her male co-stars, who also made public political statements on social media. That, of course, is absolutely true. Pedro Pascal, who's the star of the Mandalorian, put out a meme about how basically the immigrants, illegal immigrants were being held in detention facilities.

0 (44m 50s):
Those were like concentration camps. He put out that tweet nothing. She said, her male co-stars were not disciplined, let alone terminated in a way to destroy their careers, even though some would find their statements abhorrent. And she points out those statements by Pedro Pascal, as well as Mark Hamill comparing Donald Trump to Adolf Hitler. So Carrano is, is amplifying all that. And then Elon Musk put out a statement saying, anybody else who wants to sue Disney, let me know which revenge is a best served cold. He, he put out a tweet saying, quote, if you were discriminated against by Disney, or its subsidiary, just replied to this post to receive legal support. Because he received an anonymous source that showed Disney General entertainment content and inclusion standards that violate basic civil rights law and basically create all sorts of racist hiring practices.

0 (45m 42s):
And there are a bunch of people who are gonna take him up on that. Would not be surprised to see Disney sued from a thousand different directions over that because DEI must, In fact, I and Elon is doing God's work on that one. Alrighty, folks, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be joined on the line by Mark Morgan, the former Acting Border Patrol Commissioner. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us. We will get to more on this in just one second.

Black Rifle Coffee Company (46m 12s):
First, if you have not had Black Rifle coffee yet, now is the best time to try it for yourself. I'm saying that because I am deeply reliant on Black Rifle Coffee. My kids get me up too early. I'm working too late. It's the coffee keeping me going right now. You can get 20% off your first order with promo Coach Shapiro at black Rifle coffee.com. You'll see why they're becoming one of the most popular coffee companies in America. Black Rle Coffee is a veteran founding and veteran run company. They take pride in serving coffee and culture to people who love the country. When you shop with Black Rle Coffee, your money goes a long way toward giving back to those who serve our nation. Black Rle Coffee just announced a massive new partnership with ueMfc that started with a huge donation to the Hunter Seven Foundation. Every purchase you make helps fuel their mission to support veteran and first responder causes. This includes everything from getting much needed equipment to first responders, to helping veterans fight cancer and more Black Rifle coffee sources Exotic roast from award-winning farms worldwide. They offer a wide variety of ground coffee, whole beans, k-cups, and ready to drink coffee. For those who like their coffee on the go, we can say with full confidence that Black Rifle coffee is simply the best. Don't take our word for it. Head over to black Rifle coffee.com right now. Get 20% off your purchase with Code Shapiro. That's black Rifle coffee.com with promo code Shapiro.