Instagram (0s):
More than 75% of parents agree teens under 16 shouldn't be able to download apps from app stores without parental permission. Instagram wants to work with Congress to pass federal legislation that gets it done. Learn more at instagram.com/parental approval.

1 (16s):
So yesterday the Republicans voted incredibly narrowly to impeach Secretary of Homeland security Alejandro Mayorkas. It was very narrow because a few Republicans defected like three Republicans defected and Republicans as we'll discuss in just a little while, have a shrinking house majority. But they were able on a two 14 to two 13 party line vote impeach the Homeland security Secretary. So what exactly does that mean? And first the answer is impractical terms. It means nothing. He's not going to be actually convicted in the Senate. There is no shot that he's going to be convicted in the Senate. It was an optical impeachment in the same way that it was an optical impeachment both times Donald Trump was impeached by the House of Representatives.

1 (59s):
But that does not mean that it was worthless. It was worthwhile for a couple of reasons. One, it is imperative that the Republicans in the house continue to highlight Joe Biden's administration's refusal to enforce America's southern border. So just on a Pure policy matter, this administration has kept the southern border wide open. They have completely restructured American immigration law so as to facilitate the mass migration of people up through America's southern border. You are talking about anywhere from six to 10 million people who have entered the country illegally since Joe Biden took office. People who are claiming asylum, waving their arms, getting picked up by border patrol and then being released on parole into the country never to show up again. That is a deliberate policy decision made by this administration effectuated by the Secretary of Homeland security.

1 (1m 42s):
To be totally fair to Alejandro Mayorkas, he works for Joe Biden. So here is the other side of the impeachment. 'cause there's really two questions. One is, is the border policy horrific and should it be highlighted? Yes, it's horrific. Yes, it should be highlighted. Then there's the second question, whether that merits impeachment. So on the merits of impeachment, this depends on what you think impeachment is for. So for nearly all of American history, people thought that what impeachment was actually for was, you know, high crimes and misdemeanors, which is why it was barely ever used. It was used in cases of bribery a couple of times it was being threatened against Richard Nixon before he resigned. But the reality is that the impeachment cat was never taken outta the bag unless you actually had high crimes and misdemeanors to allege.

1 (2m 24s):
And then Democrats two times alleged no crime by Donald Trump and then impeached him twice. And I said in both of those cases that impeachment was not merited because even If I wildly disagreed with Donald Trump's actions between the election in November of 2020 and January 6th, 2021. There was no actual crime that took place. Bad behavior is not impeachable, crime is impeachable. And when it came to his conversations with Vladimir Zelensky, the suggestion was that he had a conversation with Vladimir Zelensky back in 2019, in which he essentially threatened the suspension of American AIDS Ukraine in the lead up to the war in Ukraine, specifically because he wanted the Ukrainian government to go and investigate Hunter Biden and Barisma.

1 (3m 6s):
And the suggestion was that this was him. Es essentially militarizing American military aid in order to pursue a political goal on his own behalf. And that was the impeachable offense. But there was no actual crime that was alleged in the impeachment documents. It was all, again, bad behavior. And So I said both times, even if you don't like Donald Trump's behavior, that's not impeachable. Democrats disagreed. They impeached him twice. So why impeach Alejandro Mayorkas without actual high crimes or misdemeanors? The reason is because if these are the new rules, they apply to everyone evenly. And we should all recognize that if we want to go back to status quo ante, if we wanna put the cat back in the bag, then we cannot have a situation which Democrats get to impeach Republican officials for not high crimes and misdemeanors.

1 (3m 48s):
And then Republicans will only impeach for high crimes and misdemeanors. So the impeachment serves two purposes. One is an obviously political and I think well merited purpose, which is go after this administration on their crap border policy. And two, is to reestablish a mutually assured destruction with regard to impeachment so that if both parties wish to restore what impeachment was for before, which is just high crimes and misdemeanors, let's go back to that. Otherwise it's just gonna be, everyone can basically assume that if an opposing party takes control of Congress a party that is not the same party running the presidency, that somebody in the White House is gonna get impeached. That's just the way this is going to work. According to the Wall Street Journal, with the 214 to 213 vote, Mayorca has become the first sitting cabinet official in history to be IMPEACHED.

1 (4m 31s):
The GOP has been pursuing the impeachment for more than a year, alleging that Mayorca has willfully refused to enforce the nation's immigration laws pointing to the record number of illegal crossings at the southern border. Mayorca has called those allegations false and of course is not going anywhere in the Senate of the United States. Now again, this doesn't mean that Alejandro Mayorca isn't doing a horrifying job. He is doing a a truly horrifying job. But it is also true that there are no crimes that are actually alleged in the impeachment documents. I'm looking at the impeachment documents right now, and again, the political case for impeaching Mayorkas or hell impeaching Joe Biden is very strong. If by that you just mean this person is doing a really bad job and betraying their public oath of office and should not be in that job. So For example, the impeachment documents say that Alejandro Mayorca has demonstrated he'll remain a threat to national and border security, the safety of the US people and the Constitution if allowed to remain in office and has acted in a manner grossly incompatible with his duties in the rule of law.

1 (5m 23s):
And I totally agree with all of that. Again, is that a high crime or misdemeanor? No, I mean, I think Joe Biden does that pretty much every day. And that doesn't mean he has committed a high crime or misdemeanor, but again, this is about two things. One is reestablishing a level of deterrence with regard to what used to be a nuclear option in American politics. Impeachment, even when Bill Clinton was impeached by the House of Representatives, bill Clinton had committed a crime. Bill Clinton committed obstruction of justice that was alleged in the impeachment charging documents. That's what was there. It was Democrats who broke this glass And. now it Democrats are gonna have to put back together. That's all. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Hallow (6m 0s):
First for all my Christian listeners lent the 40 days leading up to Easter starts today. It's a time of intense Prayer fasting and giving Hallows annual Pray 40 Challenge is one of their most popular last year. Over 1 million people joined this year, their Pray 40 Challenge focuses on surrender and includes meditations on the powerful book. He Leadeth me. This is a story about a priest who became a prisoner and slave in the Soviet Union during the Cold War. His story is one of ultimate surrender and how we are all called to offer up our own worries, anxieties, problems, and lives to God. There will also be Lent music, lent specific Bible stories and other Lent in prayers like the Seven Last Words of Christ with Jim Kiesel. How it is truly transformative. It'll help you connect with your faith on a deeper level. So what exactly are you waiting for? Download that Hallow app today at Hallow dot com slash Shapiro for an exclusive three month free trial of more than 6,000 prayers and meditations. That's Hallow dot com slash Shapiro. There's nothing more important in your life than reconnecting with the divine Hallow will help you do it. Go to Hallow dot com slash Shapiro, get that exclusive at three month free trial of more than 6,000 prayers and meditations today.

1 (7m 1s):
So what are the consequences for all this? Well, obviously it keeps front and center. All of the border failures of this administration and those border failures are myriad and super problematic. Democrats are claiming of course, that this is all ridiculous and there's, there's nothing to it. And, and it the same people who are claiming that it was perfectly fine to impeach Donald Trump over not high crimes and misdemeanors now saying that it's really bad to impeach mayorca over not high crimes and misdemeanors. So For example, representative Dan Goldman, who actually led the impeachment effort against Trump, he says that going after Mayorca. So that's just about taking a scalp. Well, I mean that's true. What do you think going after Trump was as well?

2 (7m 40s):
The President and Secretary Mayorca spend months negotiating a bipartisan deal to address the situation at the border, which goes further than any Democrat has ever gone before. And all of a sudden after claiming that the administration needs to address the border, the Republicans and Donald Trump decide, no, no, no, no, no. We don't really want to solve the problems. We want the problems so that we can run against the problems. And that is incredibly cynical and that's what this is all about. It is taking a scalp for Secretary Mayorkas for the MAGA base and trying to lay the blame at his feet for a situation at the border that needs to be addressed but can only be addressed by legislation, not by executive action.

1 (8m 30s):
And of course that's a lie, right? What what the impeachment is about is saying that Mayorkas has every legal tool at his disposal to shut the border. Democrats are of course claiming that you need some sort of bipartisan piece of enabling legislation in order to close the border, which is not true. And then you hear, by the way, some Republicans buying into this rhetoric by suggesting that there needs to be additional funding at the border. There actually does not. Again, I was down at the border, I talked to the head of the Border Patrol Union. You can watch that documentary that we made about it, the first episode of divided States of Biden. You can check that out over a DailyWire. We discuss all this in depth. This is not a resource problem, this is a resource allocation problem. And that is in fact about Alejandro Mayorkas, which is why for political purposes, it is necessary to remind everyone that this is solely on the Biden administration.

1 (9m 10s):
That this really is about the Biden administration. And let's be real about this. Democrats have taken the open borders position. Hakeem Jeffries, who is the minority leader of the Democratic Party in the house. He says that Greg Abbott, the governor of Texas, is the real problem because Greg Abbott is, you know, taking illegal immigrants and telling them that they can get on a bus to New York or Chicago. He's suggesting he's responsible for human trafficking, for telling people that they can go to major American sanctuary cities. But Joe Biden is not responsible for human trafficking for literally facilitating the entry of maybe 10 million people into the country.

3 (9m 45s):
Do you not see that the move by Governor Abbott of Texas to bus migrants, to Democratic leaning cities such as New York or Chicago or Denver, that while you might think it's cruel, it has been effective at demonstrating how this influx, influx of migrants has s sapped social service resources and demonstrated that this is a real crisis? Do, do you, do you agree with that?

5 (10m 14s):
Well, governor Abbot is an embarrassment and a human trafficker.

1 (10m 18s):
They want to keep the border open. When you suggest that Abbott is the embarrassment and the human trafficker, it's pretty obvious what you want. Okay? All of this obviously plays into broader concerns about Joe Biden's presidency. The reason that Democrats are very upset about the impeachment of Mayorkas is because obviously it's suggesting the American people that Joe Biden is truly a bad president because Joe Biden is truly a bad president and all of the factors that are militating against his reelection are now coming into play. According to breitbart.com, president Joe Biden maintained a plausible deniability while his family business w raked in millions from several foreign entities, including CEFC, China Energy Company, which compromised the president according to former Biden family business partner Tony Bobinski. He was talking to the House impeachment inquiry.

1 (10m 59s):
There's an impeachment inquiry into Joe Biden himself. His testimony is significant because of course you'll remember that he actually did meet Joe Biden in the lobby of the Beverly Hilton Hotel in May, 2017 to discuss business with CEFC. And he's also the whistleblower who mentioned Bobinski. Is that the infamous email about a stake of 10% held for by H four. The big guy, the big guy was Joe Biden, that there was a carve out for Joe Biden. Well, according to Bob Linsky, he said the only reason any of these international business transactions took place with tens of millions of dollars along directly to the Biden family was because Joe Biden was in iOffice. The Biden family business was Joe Biden, period. Other players have made this point very clear as well. Hunter Biden himself has adamantly stated it in a variety of communications, as did another Biden family business associate Devin Archer in his testimony last year.

1 (11m 45s):
And the perception of Joe Biden as some clean politician who has never been involved in corruption is obviously not true. So you add together his political incompetence, his accusations of corruption that are still swirling around him, those have sort of taken a backseat to the biggest issue surrounding him right now, which is his obvious senility. I mean, he's obviously losing it on a mental level. 86% of Americans by the latest polling data think he's too old to be president of the United States. And meanwhile, Democrats have no alternatives. They're just, there is no way out but through for them and their defenses are getting more and more strained. Corina Jean Pierre, yesterday, white House press Secretary incompetent, terrible at her job. She suggested that you remember that horrible press conference that Joe Biden did on Thursday night.

1 (12m 27s):
It was the worst press conference I've ever seen from a president of the United States who was specifically designed to assuage American concerns about his mental state. And so he went out there and started spewing cream of wheat and then jabbering nonsensically about how the president of Egypt was the president of Mexico and such. She said, whose idea was that? So I said at the time, it was clearly Joe Biden's idea. 'cause no political consultant in their right mind would put applesauce for brains out there in the middle of a controversy about whether he had applesauce for brains. It had to be Joe Biden being a stubborn old dude. And he was like, okay, I, I sound great, don't I, Jill? And Joe's like Joe and he's like, no. And then he went out there and sounded like that. Well, here's Kare Shaere confirming the obvious.

1 (13m 8s):
It was Joe Biden's idea to get out there in front of the cameras and demonstrate that his brain has turned to mush

6 (13m 16s):
Kare. Earlier you mentioned that the president of the White House thought it was a good idea for him to come out last Thursday. Just want to clear it up. Was it the President's idea to come out? It was

7 (13m 23s):
The president's idea, yes. He wanted to, it was his idea. It was his idea.

6 (13m 27s):
And how forceful was he when he, you know, came out and you said he wanted to do at that time?

7 (13m 33s):
I mean, you saw the president out do this, make a statement, take questions from all of you because he wanted to do it. Did

6 (13m 39s):
Anyone advise him against it? I

7 (13m 41s):
I'm not gonna get into private conversations that the president has. The president is the president of the United States. If he says he wants to speak to directly to the American people, he's gonna do that.

1 (13m 50s):
Yeah, well he decided that and then he did it and it didn't go Amazing. We get to more on this in just one second.

Balance Of Nature (13m 55s):
First, you know, it's hard getting as many fruits and veggies as you're supposed to have, which is why I rely on balance of nature. Balance of nature. Fruits and veggies are the most convenient way to get whole food ingredients every single day. Balance of nature uses an advanced cold vacuum process that encapsulates fruits and veggies into whole food supplements without sacrificing their natural antioxidants. The capsules are completely void of additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticides, or added sugar. The only thing in balance of nature's fruits and veggie capsules, those are the fruits and the veggies. Right now my listeners can get 35% off their first order and you'll also get a FREE, Fiber and Spice supplement balance of Nature's Fiber and Spice supplement. It's a revolutionary Fiber drink with a unique blend of 12 spices and whole foods. We've been flying all the time in the last few weeks and I gotta tell you, I used to get sick a lot more often from traveling while since I started doing of nature been healthier. Never, there's never been an easier way to make sure you're getting your daily dose of fruits and veggies. Experience balance of nature for yourself today, go to balance of nature.com. Use promo Coach Shapiro for 35% off your first order as a preferred customer. Plus get that free bottle of Fiber and Spice. Again, that's balance of nature.com. Promo code Shapiro.

1 (14m 57s):
She was asked, by the way, if Joe Biden should actually make his transcripts of his conversations with the special council public. Because one of the cases that Democrats have been making as we'll see in a moment is that the Special counsel who totally sank Joe Biden's boat here is the problem. So the Special counsel had on his plate a real issue, which was that Joe Biden clearly mishandled classified documents knowingly, obviously he was on tape. Again, it's amazing how many of our politicians do the crime on tape. It's it's first rule of crime. As I've said a thousand times. Don't do crime on tape, folks. Hey, watch The Wire don't do crime on tape. But apparently all of our politicians break that rule. So Joe Biden was on tape with his ghost writer saying, just a minute. All the classified materials are ster.

1 (15m 39s):
I just found the classified materials, which means he knew they were classified and that they were at his house, which they violation of the law. In any case, the way that the special counsel got out of that it was, was by saying, yeah, I mean it's true that he said all that, but also we all know that his brain is no longer functional, that he's in the clutches of encroaching senility. And then Democrats are like, how dare he say that? And so people like me are like, okay, well if you say that he's not senile, then maybe you should release the transcript. So Corin Shapiro has asked, are they gonna release the transcript? She's like, nah.

8 (16m 12s):
Committee chairs have sent a letter to the Attorney General asking for, for the release of the transcripts and recordings related to hers investigation. Given your insistence that the special counsel's, characterizations of the president's demeanor were inaccurate, are you eager for this material to be made public? Do you support their release? Well,

7 (16m 28s):
Look, and I just wanna be really clear, it's not just us. There was also bipartisan voices and the legal illegal experts who have said it was wr flatly wrong. Right? It was, it was gratuitous, it was inappropriate. How that was characterized in, in, in the special counsel's report. For any other specific on the, the transcript or anything related to that, the letter I would certainly refer you to of my colleagues. Counsel.

8 (16m 52s):
Counsel. So you won't say counsel, given that you think the report is flatly wrong and gratuitous. You can't say if you want the material to be made public, if the American no, what

7 (16m 60s):
I can say it's being, they're discussing it, they're looking at it. There's a process that's involved. And so the White House Council can obviously has taken these questions from all of you. And so they're looking into it. I just don't have anything further to say about that.

1 (17m 13s):
Yeah, so then they're, they're not gonna release those transcripts 'cause it's gonna demonstrate what everybody already knows. And by the way, we don't need the transcripts. We can see him, this is my favorite part of this whole controversy of whether Joe Biden has a mental problem at this point. We have eyes, folks, he's the president. Every time he talks, it feels like he's about to keel over physically. Are, am I gonna be surprised by anything in the transcript? I'll be surprised if he's shockingly articulate. That's what will surprise me. Meanwhile, the Democrats, again, they keep trying to push through. So Nancy Pelosi, who is 83 years old, legitimately 83 because the entire leadership class of our country has been dead for 20 years. Nancy Pelosi, they're trotting her out to say that Joe Biden is sharp, which is an amazing ama.

1 (18m 0s):
They have to trot out the lady who's two years older than Joe Biden to explain why old age and sharpness are, are not affecting Joe Biden amazing stuff here.

10 (18m 9s):
Do you think that is the avenue that President Biden should go down on this sort of poking fun at at, I mean his age is his age.

11 (18m 19s):
His age is his age. Yes. I'll tell you this though. I've worked with the president for a long time, especially closely as speaker when he was president and now since then. And he knows, I mean, he, he's always on the ball. He knows these issues, he knows the legislation. He helped write some of it. He campaigned on it, he remembers it. Anyone who would think that there at some advantage because of his age thinks that at their peril, because he's very sharp

1 (18m 54s):
Dentures are clacking. Yes, this is our country now we email Jen Saki, the former press Secretary for Joe Biden. She says that maybe we should actually investigate Robert her the Special Counsel. Yes, we we should, we should not talk about the 25th Amendment for our fading president. Instead, we should talk about whether the special counsel is a bad, bad man for noting the thing that everyone can see. Because again, we all have eyeballs.

12 (19m 16s):
His reporting and who he talked to went outside of what would be normal even for a special counsel. Do you think that should be investigated or looked into? Because the, the judicial system, the judiciary is kind of in a, a, not a, not a positive view necessarily by the American public at this point.

9 (19m 34s):
Well, in the role that I have, all, all I can do is point it out, which is you had an investigation that ran for 15 months, which could have been concluded in just a few months. There was never any question that the president had not engaged in criminal wrongdoing. He was the self-reporting party here. He had turned the documents over upon discovery cooperated in every respect. And yet somehow in this report, the special counsel felt compelled to engage in this irrelevant, unfounded, and often pejorative commentary. And I think it's clear that that commentary is inconsistent with department norms and

1 (20m 12s):
Yeah, ate, investigate the special counsel. That's the ticket. You guys are doing great. Chuck Schumer also an old man. He's out there defending Joe Biden. I am amused by the fact that legitimately every person in these conversations is, is an elderly person. Chuck Schumer is 73 years old and here here's Chuck Schumer, he's the spring chicken of the group talking about how with it Joe Biden is,

13 (20m 35s):
I talked to President Biden, you know, regularly off sometimes several times in a week or usually several times in a week. His mental acuity is great, it's fine, it's as good as it's been over the years. I've been speaking to him for 30 years since we worked on the Brady Bill in the assault weapons ban when I was a young congressman and he's, he's he's fine. All this right wing propaganda that he's mental acuity is declined is wrong.

1 (21m 5s):
Oh, it's, it's, it's, it's all wrong. Is it? We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Black Rifle Coffee Company (21m 9s):
First, if there's one thing keeping me alive right now, it is black Rifle Coffee. So last night we got back in from backstage, it was really, really late. And then my three-year-old daughter came on in at five 30 this morning and yeah, I wasn't sure If I was gonna recover in time for the show. And that is why I started guzzling Black Rifle Coffee like nobody's business. If you haven't tried it, now's the perfect time to do so. Right now you can get 20% off your first order with promo code SHAPIRO at black Rifle Coffee dot com. You'll see why they're becoming one of the most popular coffee companies in the country. Black Rifle Coffee is veteran founded and veteran run. They take pride in serving coffee and culture to people who love the country. When you shop with Black Rifle Coffee, your money goes a long way toward giving back to those who serve our nation. Every purchase you make helps fuel their mission to support veteran and first responder causes. This includes everything from getting much needed equipment to first responders to helping veterans fight cancer and more. Plus Black Rifle Coffee just announced a massive new partnership with ueMfc, which they kicked off with a huge donation to the Hunter seven Foundation, black Rifle Coffee sources exotic rose from award winning farms worldwide. Their stuff is awesome. Don't just take our word for it. Go to black Rifle Coffee dot com right now. Get 20% off your purchase with Code SHAPIRO. That's black Rifle Coffee dot com promo code Shapiro.

1 (22m 17s):
Well, the funny thing about all of this is again, because everyone has eyeballs, even John Stewart who has now returned to Comedy Central to take over his old slot on the Daily Show, he's now doing that I suppose every Monday he opened with a bit about how not with it Joe Biden is, and again, this is a format that always suited John Stewart best. No one ever said he was untalented. I said he was bad for the country, but no one ever said he was untalented. Here was John Stewart opening up his guns on Joe Biden's mental acuity.

14 (22m 45s):
These two candidates, they are both similarly challenged and it is not crazy to think that the oldest people in the history of the country to ever run for president might have some of these challenges. Now, Democrats will say that any criticism like this, especially if Biden is unfair because you just don't know Biden like they know Biden. If you are telling us behind the scenes he's sharp and full of energy and on top of it and really in control and leading, you should film that. That would be good to show to people instead of a TikTok where he goes, one thing we know for certain is this. We have two candidates who are chronologically outside the norm of anyone who has run for the presidency in this country in the history of this country.

14 (23m 32s):
They are the oldest people ever to run for president breaking by only four years. The record that they set the stakes of this election don't make Donald Trump's opponent less subject to scrutiny. It actually makes him more subject to scrutiny if the barbarians are at the gate. You want Conan standing on the Ramparts, not chuck it chip cookie guy.

1 (24m 0s):
So suffices to say Joe Biden has a bunch of problems in his reelect effort, including the fact by the way that inflation continues to truck along. The consumer price index came out yesterday. And what I found is that consumer prices rose 3.1% in January, 2024 from a year before. Remember, they're shooting for 2%. So this is 50% off prices rose the fastest for a wide variety of groups for frozen non-carbonated juices and drinks 29% up. There are a bunch of products that are significantly more expensive now than they were before over the course of the last few years. Obviously everything is more expensive than it was before, which is why the stock market took a dump yesterday. I dropped 500 points because the market is realizing that it's not time for loose monetary policy.

1 (24m 44s):
Again, c NBC Steve Leeman, he says, listen, it was a lousy month for inflation. Well, yeah, it's been a lousy tenure by Joe Biden for inflation. As it turns out,

15 (24m 52s):
Th this issue we talked about about these beginning of the year price increases is, is something that is, that drove inflation this time around a, a lot of big increases in medical costs. You had medical care up 0.7 motor vehicle insurance off up 1.4 hospitals up as well. You didn't, you didn't get much. You, you got a little relief from the used car world. You had food prices up. It was just a lousy month when it came to inflation. And of course real earnings also declined in the month worth pointing out.

1 (25m 28s):
Okay, so yes, things are bad for Joe Biden. Now does that mean that Joe Biden is going to win lose in in 2024? So we have some early indicators and they're not amazing for Republicans. So last night there was an election in the house seat to succeed. George Santos, you remember George Santos? He was the weirdo who was fibbing about his name and his sexuality and pretty much everything else. George Santos, you remember this like con artist huckster, maybe libel for criminal charges. Anyway, he got tossed out of his seat by the Congress and that left his seat vacant. That seat was a Democrat district. It had been rated a toss up by Cook political report.

1 (26m 10s):
So it was a pretty hotly fought race between a Democrat named Tom Suze. Tom Suze had had that seat for a couple of terms before Santos took it in 2022. And he was running against a Republican named Mazie Pill, who's really sort of fascinating character. Ethiopian Jew who was pro-Trump, but didn't run her campaign on the basis of Trump because if she had, it would've been bad that that is not exactly a, a Trump rich neighborhood. Joe Biden won that district in any case. Now the lost last night she lost because again, there's a lot of money that was tossed in. Tom Suze has a very strong ground game.

1 (26m 50s):
He was very snowy outside and, and all the rest. But special elections in this election cycle have not been going well for Republicans overall. That does not mean that, that they're not always bell leather. It doesn't mean that it's necessarily gonna go amazing for Democrats in 2024. With that said, these special elections, if they were going for Republicans, would probably be an indicator that 2024 could theoretically be a Republican waver in the face of Democratic failures. The problem is Democrats right now are only losing the house by like a couple of votes with the loss of this seat. The Republican House majority is down to three or four total votes, and some of those seats are currently being occupied by people who aren't showing up for Congress. So that means that in the upcoming 2024 elections, there is a very not insignificant likelihood the Democrats end up taking the house.

1 (27m 38s):
And for all the talk about Republicans taking the Senate, those Senate races are very close. So one of the things Republicans should keep in mind is that they're running against a dead person. 86% of the American public thinks that Joe Biden is dead. They hate him on every issue and Republicans are running dead even in pretty much every poll. Donald Trump's running dead even with Joe Biden. Well, one of the ways that you can militate against that, that you can fight against that is to use every voting tool at your disposal. One of the big problems in New York is that Republicans did not vote early. They did not use mail-in ballots. You know, who did the Democrats? The Democrats use the mail-in ballots. Now, who could in the Republican party who would've suggested that mail-in ballots are stupid and you shouldn't use them?

1 (28m 21s):
Who would've proposed such a foolish proposition that you should, you know, never that it's, it's somehow morally bad to vote early If you're a Republican thus losing two sentence seats in Georgia and maybe his own presidential election. Donald Trump better flip on that like right fast. Because use every method at your disposal to win it's legal. Why would you not encourage Republicans to vote early? According to the Wall Street Journal, Azi will succeed George Santos. He cuts into an already narrow GOP majority in the chamber. The party breakdown is currently two 19 to two 12. Suzy beat back criticism from Philip over the Biden administration's stewardship of the southern border, as well as the handling of Eric Adams of the migrant crisis in New York City.

1 (29m 3s):
Suzy said the race was centered on immigration and the economy, much like the issues all across our country. We you won this race because we addressed the issues and found a way to bind our division. Suzy is more of a moderate Democrat in some respects. In fact, as soon as his election was announced, a bunch of pro kamas protestors showed up and started yelling at him. That's what this looked like.

16 (29m 34s):
Okay,

1 (29m 41s):
With that said, this was a pretty solid victory by Azi. It was not a particularly close election. He ended up winning about 4 54 to 46 in this election. Again, if Democrats had lost this seat, it would've been a red blinking light right in their face. But they didn't. The Republican math is still rough. Immigration is not gonna be enough. It's not gonna be the only issue for Republicans in the 2024 election. This now makes the second major congressional election in which Republicans have tried to make a immigration centerpiece and it didn't quite work. Donald Trump tried to do it in 2018 and it really did not re down to the Republican benefit. Democrats had pretty high turnout because they wanted to show up and take back the district. And once again, that mail-in voting problem is a problem for Republicans.

1 (30m 24s):
Disappointing GOP turnout on the day of could cripple Trump. And this is now a pattern for Republicans across the country. We get to more on this in just one second. First,

ZipRecruiter (30m 35s):
let us say that you needed to upgrade your employment base. Let, let's say that you had a producer and he's really good. He's solid dude, just is on the ball, gets the right clips every time. But one day, one day he gets the wrong clips and you decide it's time to open up the resume as well. That's how ZipRecruiter can help you. Our friends at ZipRecruiter conducted a recent survey which found that the top hiring challenge employers face in 2024 is a lack of qualified candidates. If you are an employer and you need to hire the good news, ZipRecruiter has smart tools and features that help you find more qualified candidates quickly. And right now you can try it for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire as soon as you post your job. ZipRecruiter's powerful matching technology shows you candidates whose skills and experience match your requirements. ZipRecruiter has an invite to apply feature so you can send top candidates a personalized invite to encourage them to respond to your job post. When you use a ZipRecruiter's rating tool, they'll send you more matches from new profiles that are created on the side. Let ZipRecruiter help you conquer your biggest hiring challenge of finding qualified candidates. CI four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter get a quality candidate within day one. Just go to my exclusive web address right now to Try ZipRecruiter for FREE at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Again, that is ZipRecruiter dot com slash D-A-I-L-Y-W-I-R-E. ZipRecruiter is indeed the smartest way to hire

1 (31m 44s):
Greg Price on Twitter. He points out that there was also a special election yesterday in Bucks County, Pennsylvania to determine control of the State House of Representatives. It was a Biden plus 10 district. It's a solidly Biden district. The race was called for the Democrats over the Republicans with only 43% of the vote counted. Why? Well, because the Democrat won the mail-in vote 86 to 1486 to 14. Why? Because Republicans keep saying stupid things like don't vote by mail. Dumb, dumb, dumb. Don't do that. The other thing that you shouldn't do is probably you should not run every Congressional or Senate race on the basis of does Donald Trump love the candidate personally?

1 (32m 24s):
So the candidate in that race, again, Massey Pill, was not an anti-Trump candidate, just wasn't a person who made Trump the centerpiece for campaign. And Donald Trump is a very bad habit, which is crap on candidates, some of whom he endorses, by the way, who then go on to lose by suggesting that if they had tied themselves more closely to him, they would've won. So he put out a statement saying quote, I have an almost 99% endorsement success rate in primaries and a very good number in the general elections as well. But just watch this very foolish woman Mazie pill running an race where she didn't endorse me and tried to quote unquote straddle the fence when she could have easily won. If she understood anything about modern, say, politics in America. maga, which is most of the Republican party, stayed home and it always will, unless it is treated with the respect that it deserves.

1 (33m 4s):
I stayed outta the race. I wanna be loved. Give us a real candidate in the district for November Su Swazi. I know him well. Can be easily beaten. Okay, so I mean no. I mean no. It turns out that running races in Congress specifically about Trump is not a recipe for electoral victory. It's just not. There are a lot of purple districts where people don't particularly love Trump. There are some districts, red districts where you can love Trump as much as you want, it'll be good for you during a heavy red district. Those districts tend to love Donald Trump. This district went for Joe Biden in the 2020 election. Running on the basis of I love Trump in a Biden plus eight or Biden plus 10 district would not exactly be smart politics. If Republicans continue to follow that road in elections, that is not going to end particularly well for them.

1 (33m 47s):
It just isn't. So again, the factors against Joe Biden's reelect are very solid. But can Republicans snatch defeat from the jaws of victory? You bet your ass they can and they're really good at it. They spent the last few years doing it. Joe Biden was a weak candidate in 2022 and somehow he won. So again, Republicans better get smart about all of us. Okay, meanwhile, the Congress continues to debate this massive foreign policy aid bill. It has now moved to the house, a $95 billion aid package, about $60 billion in military AIDS Ukraine. At this point, we should be clear that the $60 billion in military aids Ukraine, a large part of that is to restock the American military buildup that has already gone to Ukraine. So we sent weapons to Ukraine, that was military aid.

1 (34m 29s):
And now we have to restock all of that for our own purposes and that is considered military aid to Ukraine. And we, we have to, it's actually not a bad thing for America's military base to be built up. That's actually quite a good thing. Now the question as I've said is, is all $60 billion of that necessary in order to prevent Russia from taking the country? I laid all of this out yesterday that what's amazing about our foreign policy debates is no one is willing to clearly state what their end goal is on virtually any of this. And because Republicans are not being clear about what their end goals are, that allows Democrats not to be clear about their end goals. So if Republicans just said, listen, we would like to provide the amount of money to Ukraine necessary to prevent Russia from overrunning its current positions, that's the amount of money we're willing to send.

1 (35m 14s):
And meanwhile, we want to aggressively have the president and the State Department negotiate an end to this conflict that looks like what everybody knows the end of the conflict is gonna look like, which is a solidification of the current border situation, plus American security guarantees and European security guarantees to Ukraine. That's effectively the outline of the deal. If Republicans said that it would be very hard for Joe Biden to come back with something different. 'cause everybody knows that that is the logical solution. Okay? But instead, Republicans seem to be implying, some Republicans seem to be implying For example, that it would be totally fine not just if Putin were to continue the war, but if Putin were to overrun Kiev. And that allows Joe Biden to then go out there and suggest that this foreign aid bill is all about preventing kyiv from being overrun.

1 (36m 1s):
Which it's unclear to me that that's what it is about. There's a bunch of other garbage in the bill as well. In other words, there are many good principled grounds to oppose the foreign aid package. You can say that it's too large. It could even suggest, I think, a little bit less cred credibly that it's a MISP prioritization because we need to spend that money on the border. As I've said before, the problem at the border is not a money problem. Plus, let's be real about this. The amount of money that we have currently granted in to, to foreign aid, even in places like Ukraine, amounts to approximately a fraction like a small, tiny little fraction of what the American budget typically is. If you are talking about the amount that has been provided to Ukraine over the course of this war, which would amount to maybe a hundred billion dollars, it's like 1.4% of the American annual budget.

1 (36m 42s):
You're not talking about the kinds of money that bankrupt the economy. The stuff that bankrupts the economy, by the way, is all the entitlement programs that no one is willing to touch. And that's why I always find it ironic. There's some people who are like real spending hawks like Rand Paul's a spending hawk. There's certain people who are definitely not spending hawks and now they're bucking at the spending. It's like, I feel like that's not what this is really about. In any case, Joe Biden is using Republican lack of clarity on what they want in order to push the idea that Republicans want Putin to win. Which again, I've talked to many of the senators who are voting against the foreign aid bill. They don't want Putin to win, they just think the foreign aid bill is too large. But this is why it behooves you to be clear about your positions on these particular issues. We'll get to that in just one second.

Jeremy's Razors (37m 19s):
Folks, I have good news and I have bad news. The bad news is most of the products in your bathroom, they're woke. I mean, look at them. Look at the commercials for the products that you've bought. A lot of 'em are woke. The good news is Jeremy's wants to help you wash the woke away with 15% off all of your essentials. Along with Jeremy's Skincare products, the facial cleanser and moisturizer are made with natural ingredients like aloe vera, bamboo charcoal and hyaluronic acid. And Jeremy's leaves out toxic chemicals like parabens, sulfates, and how can you wash off toxic values if you're using toxic chemicals? You know that that one that I'm talking about, it is spelled P-H-T-H-A-L-A-T-E-S. That's why it sounded like Joe Biden talking right there. Heading over to jeremy's Razors dot com to get Jeremy's Skincare for 15% off today, along with all of your other essentials.

16 (38m 1s):
Okay, meanwhile, Joe Biden is now attempting to play Republican hesitance to pass this giant foreign aid package, which again has a bunch of bad elements, maybe too much aid for Ukraine depending on what exactly is the end goal here. Certainly too much aid for quote unquote the Palestinians in Gaza, which again, unspecified how that money even gets into the Gaza Strip, who takes it? The American taxpayer sponsored pretty much all of Hamas' weaponry, tunnel building and all the rest over the course of the past 20 years. So it seems to me the American taxpayer should stop subsidizing actual terrorist groups. Those are all good reasons to oppose the foreign aid bill. And in fact, I think it should be passed by the house in pieces. I think that if you are Mike Johnson, the best path forward is put up a clean Israel aid bill separately, put up a clean Ukraine aid bill of the size that you think is necessary to prevent Glen Mayor Putin from overrunning Kiev.

16 (38m 50s):
Put that up separately, put a clean Taiwan aid bill and force Democrats to vote on each one of those things.

1 (38m 54s):
And force Joe Biden to veto each one of those things. That would be the smart politics here, because the truth is that there is a majority proposition for foreign aid on each of these things. Like just as a political matter, it's like an 80 20 matter that most Americans believe that the amount of support that America has provided to Israel is either right or needs to be increased when it comes to the amount of foreign aid that has been provided to Ukraine. There still is a broad majority that believes that enough foreign aid should be provided to Ukraines. That Russia doesn't take it over. If that's the proposition. And then the question is how much aid that actually is. You know, it depends of course in all these polls on how you ask the question. When you say, should Ukraine get more aid? Many Americans will say no. If you say, if Vladimir Putin will take over Ukraine, if they don't get more aid, should Ukraine get more aid?

1 (39m 37s):
Most Americans will then say yes. When it comes to Taiwan, that is a broad majority proposition. Most Americans believe that Taiwan should be armed enough to repel a Chinese invasion or a Chinese blockade, right? So you can pass all those independently. That would be the path forward for Mike Johnson. Force the Democrats to the floor on this one. Okay? But because no one's been clear about their position, that allows Joe Biden to get out there and slur his words about all of it. So yesterday Joe Biden does a press conference. It was literally a five minute press conference, took no questions. He's doddering, he is not solid. Here he was yesterday.

17 (40m 10s):
And the way it works is we supply Ukraine with military equipment from our stockpiles and then we spend our money replenishing those stockpiles. So our military has access to them stockpiles that are made right here in America by American workers.

1 (40m 27s):
Okay? I don't, I I, I don't know what, what he means by literally he doesn't speak English anymore. But again, his entire shtick is, he believes that if he yells at Republicans about Putin, that's gonna have the same impact as Republicans yelling at him about immigration. I really don't think that's the case here. He was yesterday suggesting that Republicans have turned pro Putin.

17 (40m 48s):
And I say to the house members, house Republicans, you gotta decide, are you gonna stand up for freedom or are you gonna side with terror and tyranny? You gonna stand with Ukraine? Are you gonna stand with Putin? We stand with America or with Trump Republicans and Democrats in the Senate came together to send a message of unity to the world. It's time for the House of Republicans to do the same thing. To pass this bill immediately to stand for decency. Hey, what Stanford democracy to stand up to. A so-called leader hell Ben on weakening American security.

1 (41m 29s):
Okay, the the these sorts of truisms where he says Stand up for freedom, stand up democracy. I don't like that sort of stuff. When you talk foreign policy, foreign policy is about hardheaded American interests. That doesn't mean that we shouldn't back countries that, that are more pro-American over countries that are more anti-American. We should, generally speaking, it doesn't mean we shouldn't back liberty when we have the ability to do so. That's true also, but let's be real about this. The reason that we are backing Ukraine in the fight against Putin is for very strong geopolitical reasons. You wanna throw China off the ball with regard to invading Taiwan. You wanna weaken the Russian military so they provide less of an ally to the Chinese. You want to make sure that Russia can't spread its tentacles into Africa in the Middle East. You want to make sure that Russia doesn't have its eyes on Poland or on Lithuania or Lavia or Estonia, right?

1 (42m 12s):
These are all good geopolitical reasons. Very few of them have to do with this kind of broad democracy. But I don't like that sort of stuff because again, those are arguments that as we used to say in law school, prove too much. There are many democracies that are under threat in the world. Doesn't mean that necessarily the United States has a role in all of that. There are lots of places where bad stuff is happening. Doesn't mean the United States has a role in all of that. Either this happens to be a place where the United States can sign a reasonable check. I dunno if 60 billion is the size of that reasonable check. But in any case, Republican lack of clarity opens the door to Biden being able to do this sort of propagandizing. And you can see that right? Chuck Schumer was out there yesterday promoting the idea that this is one of the most consequential bills in American history, which I have some questions.

13 (42m 56s):
A long night, a long weekend, and a long few months. But a new day is here and our efforts have been more than worth it today we witnessed one of the most historic and consequential bills to have ever passed the Senate. It's certainly been years, perhaps decades since the Senate passed a bill that so greatly impacts not just our national security, not just the security of our allies, but the security of Western democracy.

1 (43m 33s):
Okay? So again, the the, the sort of game that he's playing here where it's either this bill or nothing, this sort of binary stupidity has always been particularly dumb. Now what's gonna happen in the house? So Mike Johnson has said that he has no intention of bringing the bills, currently stands up for a, for a vote on the floor. And as I say, I think that he should just carve it up and provide piecemeal bills for each one of these priorities. First of all, I tend to like that anyway. don don't like omnibus packages 'cause omnibus packages tend to be crap sandwiches. So I'd be much happier with single issue bills that people get to vote up or down on. You don't want aid for Israel, fine vote on it. You don't want aid for Ukraine. Fine vote on it. Like just do it that way. But there is another way that the house could theoretically go around Mike Johnson and something worth considering as just a possibility. And that is a discharge petition.

1 (44m 14s):
So get ready because I think Democrats actually will probably try to pursue this. A discharge petition would require about 218 members of the house, a majority to force consideration of a piece of legislation on the floor. So essentially you get a piece of paper, everybody signs it, you get 200 Democrats and take 20 Republicans in the house to sign this piece of paper. And then it moves forward through this arduous process and the majority effectively loses control of the floor. Unlikely it moves forward that way because again, I don't think Democrats actually want this thing passed. I think Democrats would prefer to use it as something to run on Democrats. Were accusing Republicans of that with regard to an immigration bill. There was I think a grain of of some truth to that. I think it's also true for Democrats.

1 (44m 55s):
I think Democrats right now would prefer to see Republicans kill this thing in the house. So they can then run on the idea that Americans are weak on national security, which is why it behooves Republicans to be clear about what they want and what they do not want. And right now you have a fractured narrative from Republicans over the foreign aid. Are they doing it because they actually don't mind Putin running over Ukraine? Are they doing it because they don't want Israel to be able to defend himself against Kama? Or are they saying we're spending too much money and they're spending hawks like a Thomas Massey or like a Rand Paul, or are they saying that they want a grant foreign aid, they just don't want all the crap in the bill. They've being totally unclear about which of these paths they're choosing that's allowing Democrats to spin this thing. Okay? Meanwhile, speaking of Republicans not handling politics competently.

1 (45m 36s):
So we mentioned yesterday that Donald Trump would like to see Ra Trump become co-chair of the RNC. And as I mentioned yesterday, I don don't really know Ra trump like at all. I've never met her. don don't believe don don't have anything against Larry Trump. I'm not a big fan of dynastic politics. I just think it's wrong and bad. I didn't like it when it was Clinton. I didn't like it when it was Bush. And I don't like it when it's Trump either. I particularly don't like it when entire Republican apparatuses are mobilized in favor of one man at the expense of, you know, conservative victory across the country. The RNC is not just supposed to be about the presidential race. That's why the president has his own super pacs. That's why the president has his own campaign fundraising apparatus. The RNC is supposed to be about congressional races, you know, 'cause Congress matters and Senate races because you know the Senate matters.

1 (46m 20s):
But Lyra Trump, she is out there. Yeah, if, if the Republican party is basically just pledge p pledge fieldy and allegiance to Donald Trump, that's not a party anymore. It isn't. And it's certainly not a vehicle for victory because Donald Trump is not popular enough to do that. Democrats, by the way, tried the same thing with Barack Obama and it failed. Parties do not succeed when they are not coalitional parties. Must be coalitional. They must include people who are lukewarm on Trump or even cold on Trump, but will vote with Trump 85 to 90% of the time. So taking all of your campaign resources and directing them toward a presidential and forgetting about, you know, the legislative body where all legislation commences, that's a mistake. But that's what Lara Trump was saying.

1 (47m 1s):
She was literally out there yesterday as the possible co-chair of the RNC suggesting that every dime raised by the RNC should go into the presidential race, which is wild. That is not how the RNC is supposed to work. And by the way, if it does work that way, Republicans will get their asses kicked up and down the ballot.

18 (47m 16s):
Here's what I can tell you, the RNC needs to be the leanest, most lethal political fighting machine we've ever seen in American history. That is the goal. Over the next nine and a half months, If I am elected to this position. I can assure you there will not be any more $70,000 or whatever exorbitant amount of money it was spent on flowers. Every single penny will go to the number one and the only job of the RNC that is electing Donald J. Trump as president of the United States and saving this country.

1 (47m 49s):
Okay? So that's not what the RNZ is for. The RNC is not just for getting Trump elected president, it's about other candidates as well. And the problem with this mentality is that what it means, having seen how Donald Trump responded to the loss of Massey OP in the New York three race, if it turns into the only people that Donald Trump endorses are the people, the RNC backs and the only people who pledge total fealty to Donald Trump are the people that the RNC backs, that is not a recipe for success. Again, what I would like to see just politically 2025, January, 2025, I want to see Donald Trump as president with a solid house majority and a Republican and a Republican majority in the Senate as well. That is my top priority, right?

1 (48m 30s):
Just politically speaking, I want to see Republican unified electoral command of the legislative branches of government, as well as the executive branch of government. Anything that is an obstacle to that up to and including declarations of fealty directly to Donald Trump is stupid. If the RNC is gonna run itself this way, this is not the way to win. As proof of this proposition, I have 20 18, 20 20, 20 21, 20 22, and now 2023. I'm not sure how many more elections we have to run in order to understand that Donald Trump is not in fact and should not be the center of every congressional race, every senate race. That is not a good strategy for victory in an incredibly diverse country with a lot of congressional districts and Senate seats that, that do not share all the same priorities.

1 (49m 13s):
Okay? I'd be remiss. If I did not comment on a clip that has been making the rounds today. It is a clip of Tucker Carlson. I'm not sure when this is from, but Russell Brands started putting this out. As you know, I like Russell. I've had Russell on the show multiple times. We had many conversations with Russell. In any case, Tucker once again went after me rather personally here, here, here he was.

19 (49m 35s):
We have a right to be mad at least, and let me just again, speak for Americans, middle-aged Americans, which is what I am. You know, I've got four draft age children. So if you're playing recklessly fast and loose with their lives, then I have a right to despise you and I do. So if you're Nikki Haley, who's running for president or Ben Shapiro, or half the people I see on television casually mentioning the possibility of nuclear war, or sending Americans to fight in the Middle East, or in any way involving us in a war that has nothing to do with prosperity and peace at home, nothing, in other words to do with us Americans, then I have a right to call you out and be really offended.

19 (50m 17s):
'cause it's my family. They live here. It's not a joke to me. It's, there's nothing abstract about it. And that is the difference between what's happening in the Middle East from what's happening in Ukraine, about which I had very strong feelings, but I didn't think there was a realistic possibility that my kids could be enmeshed in it. Now, there is, and the only people who claim it's divisive to pull people's attention back to their own families, their own communities are the people profiting from your attention being 5,000 miles away. That's just true. And, and you know it's true because they don't even debate you. They just name call. You're a pro terroror, you're whatever. Oh, shut up.

1 (50m 51s):
So let's be clear about this one. Tucker is just lying about my positions here. I've never called for boots on the ground in Ukraine. You listen to the show, you know that's the case. I've never felt called for American boots on the ground in Israel. By the way, do I think it is good for America that there are a bunch of pro Hamas people running around tearing down posters of kidnap people, including Americans? No, I don't think that's very good for America, and I actually do see a fairly significant problem in the West if you do have hundreds of thousands of people marching in support of a terrorist group. That seems like a fairly pro-America position to me. But you know, Tucker has been spending months mischaracterizing my positions, lying about my positions. As you know from listening to the show, I've offered many times to sit down with Tucker.

1 (51m 35s):
He has said he's willing. His team has said that he's busy for months because of foreign travel. That offer remains open already. Folks, the rest of the show continues right now will be joined by Anthony Rubin. He's the founder of muckraker.com. He's a leading expert on the US border crisis, one of the only journalists who have ever traveled and documented the entire mass migration route from keto Ecuador to the US border. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

You Might Be Right (52m 5s):
Is America's primary system working? Is the electoral college still the best process for electing a president? Could a third party candidate ever be successful in a new season of you might be right, former Tennessee Governors Bill Haslam and Phil Breen gather the country's top experts to explore these issues and more as we approach the 2024 presidential election. Listen to you might be right, A new podcast from the Baker School at the University of Tennessee, available now wherever you get your podcasts.