ExpressVPN (0s):
The Ben Spiro Show, sponsored by ExpressVPN Protect your online Privacy today at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (5s):
In 1859, a human rights activist named Henry Dand, who had later co-founded the Red Cross, observed the aftermath of the battle of so farino between friendship Piedmontese and Austrian armies in northern Italy. He was shocked by the treatment of wounded soldiers on the battlefield. He worked diligently to bring together a variety of governments to sign onto a series of rules governing the treatment of captured and wounded soldiers signed in Geneva in 1864. These would become known as the first Geneva Conventions. It took another 85 years, however, before the world began to think about the treatment of civilians in wartime in horror at the German treatment of civilians during World War ii. The Geneva conventions were expanded in 1949 to protect non-combatant civilians. This was accomplished in the fourth Geneva Convention designed to protect civilians by encouraging military actors to separate themselves from civilian populations.

0 (52s):
The 1977 edition protocols made clear the use of human shields was absolutely forbidden by the rules of War. Article 12, four states quote, under no circumstances shall medical units be used in an attempt to shield military objectives from attack. Article 51 7 states, quote, the president or movements of the civilian population or individual civilians shall not be used to render certain points or areas immune from military operations, in particular in attempts to shield military objectives from attacks or to shield favor or impede military operations. Article eight two B of the 1998 ICC statute says, quote, utilizing the presence of a civilian or other protected person to render certain points, areas, or military forces, immune from military operations constitutes a war crime in international armed conflicts.

0 (1m 37s):
The purpose of outlawing human shields is perfectly obvious. No country can be expected to forgo its military aims in order to protect civilians deliberately placed in danger by the enemy to immunize. Those who use human shields would incentivize everyone to take human shields, which would then necessitate the death of more civilians in order to achieve military goals. And yet the legacy media and the political left have been doing just that. They know that Hamas has been using human shields. Hamas brags about it. Over the weekend, Israeli defense forces discovered rocket launchers planted directly next to children's pools and playgrounds, The children's pool. You see rocket launchers located directly next to it. It's a group of four rocket launchers that are directly located five meters from a children's swimming pool.

0 (2m 23s):
It's the reason that they are doing this. They also found rocket launchers located directly next to a giant playground. Currently, Hamas is preventing the evacuation of Gaza civilians to the south of the Gaza Strip. Here's a resident of Gaza admitting as much on tape. He says, good. You know who sends us back? We can't reach the south. That's the first thing. Secondly, there are cars of that diesel that do not allow you to go south. So we are between transitions between going out and staying here. What can we do? First of all, who sent you back to the north? Says an IDF officer and the GA in resident says, you know who sent me back? I can't say, you know, who sent us back? Why can't he take, he'll be killed if he does.

0 (3m 4s):
The officer says, but a lot of people left for the south and never came back. The Gazen resident says they have cars that go around the to block the way we don't have a car. The idea officer says, have you seen or heard of this? Did you see or hear it? The Gaza is talked about in schools, talked about in schools. We are refugees in the schools. Hamas is blocking people from leaving for the south. Now, over the weekend, Israeli forces struck an ambulance. Hamas immediately claimed that Israel had been targeting the wounded. The media then began to parrot this lie. Here's some of the video, Right? You can see these are awful pictures, obviously.

0 (3m 45s):
Well, as it turns out, the ambulance says, Israel's being used to transport terrorists, which of course is well in line with Hamas practice. In fact, here is tape from 2014 of Hamas, literally loading up an ambulance with terrorists. Here it is. You can see it. It is aerial footage. These are terrorists who are leaving a house. They're armed and they're getting on an ambulance. It's been long time practice in both Judas Marriott West Bank and in the Gaza Strip ambulance. They use ambulances in order to transport specifically because they know that then Israel hits the ambulance. The world will pretend that Israel is attempting to hit Wounded Meanwhile over at the Alfa Hospital, the home base for Hamas' military headquarters below, which has likely stored hundreds of thousands of gallons of fuel for use by terrorists.

0 (4m 28s):
The electricity is still on despite claims that the fuel has run out. Not only that, large crowds of Goins have congregated around the hospital to cheer on footage of Kamas members firing on Israelis. For those who can't see this, you're seeing thousands of people watching a screen that's been put in place. The electricity's still on. As you can see, this is footage of Kamas members firing on Israeli troops. Giant crowd watching outside Screaming Akbar. You may notice the ages. Here is a lot of young military aged men who are standing outside right here predominantly, and they're watching with full electricity available.

0 (5m 10s):
The tape of Kamas fighting Israel, And this is not shocking. Kamas not only keeps military headquarters underground underneath hospitals. It literally built one hospital, the Indonesian hospital above terror infrastructure. It had already built to cap it all off. Kamas spent the weekend attacking Israeli troops as those Israeli troops were attempting to open a civilian corridor from north to south. So the IDF was working to open the roads. Civilians could leave. Kamas began firing mortars and anti-tank missiles at them. The story here is actually very, very simple. Israel wishes for reasons both moral and political to minimize civilian casualties among GA and Palestinian Arabs. Hamas wants more dead Palestinian Arabs.

0 (5m 51s):
The difference is why the IDF has made 20,000 phone calls dropped 1.5 million leaflets since 4.4 million SMS and 6 million voice messages urging civilians in Northern Gaza to evacuate temporarily for their safety. Here you can see tape of them dropping mass masses of leaflets and pamphlets telling people to leave the area. Look at this. They're dropping this. You can see like huge pallets of papers that are, that are being airdropped onto civilian areas telling people to leave. You see them floating down to the civilians below, telling them to get out. Never in the history of war has something been done like this in terms of warning civilians in this fashion.

0 (6m 34s):
N never has a has one army opposing a military force sent as many warnings to civilians to get out. You literally cannot name another time this has happened. Now, Kamas claims that some 6,500 female and child civilians have been killed thus far. We haven't verified any of those numbers because Kamas routinely lies about this sort of stuff. Hamas' advocates points of those numbers to suggest that Israel is killing a disproportionate number of civilians despite the fact that it's Hamas that wants them to kill the civilians. In reality, despite the insane situation in which Israel finds itself, Israel is being as meticulous in its use of military force as any military in human history. Let's take a few examples. Let's look down the road of history. At least 2 million German civilians died during World War ii.

0 (7m 17s):
At least 350,000 were killed by strategic ally bombing. Up to 800,000 Japanese civilians died during World War ii. In the Korean War, estimates placed civilian casualty numbers at 1.2 million during the Vietnam war. Some 365,000 civilians died during the Gulf War. Somewhere between 1,002 thousand civilians died at the hands of ed forces during NATO bombing of Yugoslavia, at least 1200 civilians were killed. You may remember that America was not attacked before either of those last two engagements. During the Afghanistan war, at least 46,000 civilians died during the Iraq War. Those numbers were at least 200,000. Barack Obama's drone war killed at least 400 civilians. His Libya war killed at least 600. The war on ISIS may have killed several thousand civilians.

0 (7m 57s):
Those are just wars involving the United States when it comes to military action in the Middle East. More generally, the numbers are astounding. The Saudis have killed at least 20,000 civilians in their bombing campaign. In Yemen, at least 85,000 children have died of starvation during that conflict. In Syria, at least 300,000 civilians have died. At least 12 million people have been displaced. Pakistan right now is like this moment, deporting some 1.7 million Afghan civilians. Nobody caress about any of that. There's not been a single protest about any of that. No one caress. However, hundreds of thousands, millions of nay, billions of protesters seem to care about the Jews, even though the Jews are overtly attempting to avoid civilian casualties. Well, Kama seeks as many dead Palestinian Arabs as possible, and yet the media continue to pretend that Hamas isn't to blame for civilians being killed, that Israel somehow has the magical, undisclosed ability to kill terrorists without killing the civilians.

0 (8m 49s):
The terrorists use as their shields. They have the Harry Potter like ability to cast spells that just kill the bad guys. Here's Bernie Sanders idiotically expressing just that idea.

5 (8m 58s):
How should his Israel destroy Hamas post attack on these innocent civilians in Israel without hurting, killing innocent men, women, and children when Hamas is hiding behind them and putting them in danger? How does that work?

6 (9m 16s):
Well, that is, that is exactly the right question to be asked the military experts, of which I am not one, but clearly, yeah, they have. Israel has a right to defend itself. Kamas has sworn that's what its goal is, is to destroy Israel. They gotta deal with that, but there gotta be a better way than killing thousands of men, women, and children. So once again, the immediate concern is you gotta have a pause in the bombing

0 (9m 44s):
That there's amazing stuff from Bernie Sanders there openly saying that he has no idea what his role is supposed to do, that he's not a military man, but he knows there has to be a, this is very reminiscence of when Joe Biden and company talk about police taking on bad guys, and they say, why don't you just shoot 'em in the leg? If you don't know what the hell you're talking about, this sounds good, but if you do, you sound, this sounds like a moron because Bernie Sanders is in fact a moron because he has always been a moron. This lie that Israel is somehow being indiscriminate in its use of military force, that they have secretly a better way of just killing terrorists but not killing anyone else. Well, the thing is that that theory justifies everything up to and including the genocidal October 7th attacks. That is the point to create a retroactive justification for those attacks in the public mind.

0 (10m 24s):
If the Jews are the kinds of people who drop bombs on GA and babies just for fun, then what's the big deal that Hamas shot babies directly in the face and raped their mothers before murdering them? That is the case being made by the congresswoman from Hamas, Rashida Taleb, who spent the weekend defending Hamas' genocidal slogans. She tweeted out, quote, from the river to the sea is an aspirational call for freedom, human rights and peaceful coexistence, not death, destruction or hate. This, of course, is a lie from the river to the sea, meaning the Jordan River, to the Mediterranean Sea Palestine must be free is a slogan about freedom. In the same way that the Nazi slogan Arre was about encouragement to work ethic work makes free what they actually meant. That was the, that was the sign over Aus outfits. The only side currently advocating genocide is the Palestinian side.

0 (11m 7s):
Of course, it doesn't take much to get Palestinian advocates to admit as much. Here, for example, was the Palestinian ambassador to the UK explaining this weekend he would not condemn Hamas atrocities at all.

7 (11m 19s):
Palestinian authority hasn't condemned Hamas adequately and those October 7th attacks, so do you wanna clear the air and clearly condemn the attack in Hamas today?

8 (11m 30s):
No. I want to clear the record. First of all, the Palestinian authority is not what represents the Palestinian people. It's the PLO. It's the Palestine Liberation Organization. I represent the PLO in Washington. Now, I represent the PLO in in, in London. The PA does not have external arms. The sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people is the PLO number two. Let me clarify another matter. It's the state of Palestine that will take over and protect its people in the West Bank, in Jerusalem and in Gaza. Once the Palestinian occupied territory is liberated, these

7 (12m 1s):
Are decades

8 (12m 2s):
Worth of

7 (12m 3s):
Problems. I'm just asking you this one specific issue on October 7th, not the, and the tax revenue,

8 (12m 8s):
Not decades. It's the result of us not really focusing on the root root cause. This is the moment of the U understand

7 (12m 15s):
The there deep root causes. But on that specific condemnation, it would just be a very quick answer

8 (12m 22s):
And allow me, Margaret, because I watched your interview with Israeli ambassador and he said two things, very important. He said, you know, those are unintended consequences. The 10,000 innocent people, the almost 5,000 children. I, I want to also clear the record here. This is deliberate, and this has been the Israeli military doctrine since its establishment.

0 (12m 42s):
Okay? So he's a liar and an evil human being. He's literally saying that he will not condemn Hamas' massacre of innocence and then justifying that by claiming that Israel is targeting civilians, which is a lie. Again, the only way to justify Hamas' evil is to accuse Israel of similar evil, which is precisely what Rashida Taleb is doing. She put out an ad targeting Joe Biden suggesting that he's supporting a genocide.

9 (13m 4s):
We stand with Israel.

0 (13m 17s):
This is Rashida Sleep's ad, of course, suggesting that Israel is targeting civilians, and then she shows a bunch of protests,

4 (13m 30s):
No peace on stolen,

0 (13m 32s):
No peace on stolen land, which means, by the way, the destruction of Israel is Rashida Tza,

10 (13m 42s):
Mr. President, the American people are not with you on this one.

0 (13m 46s):
So first of all, it's a lie, and this ad is supposed to demonstrate are going be hurt that Joe Biden is backing. I wish a quote genocide.

11 (13m 58s):
I wish that that wasn't gonna happen, but it is. It is going to happen.

12 (14m 3s):
I want to thank President Biden for his unequivocal support,

0 (14m 8s):
And this ad continues for a while. And then finally, she just concludes by accusing Joe Biden of she, she literally is putting in her own ad, people chanting for the destruction of the state of Israel, and then claiming that Israel is pursuing a genocide accompanied by Joe Biden. Here's the thing. The goal for those who support Hamas is not in the end to truly convince everyone that Israel is morally inferior to its opponents, because that's not possible. You can't convince anyone that anyone is morally inferior to Hamas. It's to convince everyone that Hamas and Israel are morally equivalent that Israel is on Hamas' level so as to justify Hamas' atrocities in that game. Hamas', most ardent advocates are joined by politically savvy, but morally despicable figures like Barack Obama. Barack Obama spent the weekend pretending that responsibility for Hamas' evil lies with, well, you know, well with with everyone.

0 (14m 51s):
Here he is with his fellow adults over at Pod Save America.

13 (14m 55s):
You have to take in the whole truth and you then have to admit nobody's hands are clean, that all of us are complicit to some degree. I look at this and I think back, what could I have done during my presidency to move this forward? As hard as I tried, I've got the scars to prove it, but there's a part of me that's still saying, well, was there something else I could have done? That's the conversation we should be having, not just looking backwards, but looking forward.

0 (15m 34s):
Now, of course, Obama himself is guilty. His hands are not clean. He handed billions of dollars to the Iranian terror regime. He allowed them to spread their cash and their terror all over the Middle East from Yemen to Lebanon, while simultaneously giving Israel the back of his hand. In June, 2014, when Hamas kidnapped and murdered three Israeli teenagers, including one American dual citizen, Barack Obama, said nothing for three weeks, and then finally called on Israel for restraint. He also delayed a shipment of hellfire missiles to Israel in the middle of Israel's 2014 war with Hamas. Then on his way out of office, Obama abstained from voting on a UN security council resolution rather than vetoing it. That resolution demanded that Israel stopped building in all of and Mary and East Jerusalem and created an incentive structure for the boycott and divest movement from the state of Israel.

0 (16m 16s):
As an Israeli official said at the time, quote, the US administration secretly cooked up with the Palestinians, an extreme anti-Israeli resolution behind Israel's back, which would be a tailwind for terror in boycotts and effectively make the Western wall occupied Palestinian territory. Obama's hatred for Israel was in fact a significant factor in building up both Iran and Hamas leading to the catastrophe of October 7th. So yes, Barack Obama does personally bear a share of responsibility, but that's not what he means. He means that everyone is responsible for October 7th, which means that Hamas is not responsible. It's a cycle of violence, a morally relativistic cycle of violence requiring Israeli concessions. This is the Pseudo sophisticate take. It's the radical chic take. It's repeated by nearly all of those in the legacy media, including, for example, Nicholas Kristoff.

0 (16m 59s):
We'll get to him and his idiocy in just one moment.

Birch Gold Group (17m 2s):
First, we're facing the threat of another looming government shutdown Later this month. The administration will ultimately deal with it the same way they always do. They will blow out the spending more. Spending will inevitably devalue the dollar, protect your savings by diversifying in gold with the help of Birch Gold Group. Here's the best part. When you open an IRA with birch gold for every 10 grand you spend by December 22nd, Birch Gold will send you a free gold bar. Just text Ben to 98, 98 98 claim eligibility before Black Friday. Birch Gold can even help you convert an existing IRA or 4 0 1 k into an IRA in gold without taking any money outta pocket, and you still get the free gold bars with an a plus rating. With the better business Bureau and thousands of satisfied customers, you can count on Birch Gold to help you transition an existing IRA or 4 0 1 k into an IRA in gold. Don't let your savings fall victim to the further its devaluation of the dollar. Text Ben to 98. 98 98. Receive a free, free info kit on gold, reclaim your eligibility before Black Friday and receive free gold bars on your qualifying purchase. Text Ben to 98. 98 98 today. Again, text Ben to 98. 98 98 and get started with my friends over at Birch Gold.

0 (18m 2s):
So again, the Pseudo sophisticated take in the foreign policy establishment is moral equivalents moral. So Nicholas Kristoff has a piece over the New York Times, a truly awful piece in which he admits the quiet part out loud and then just ignores it. So the piece is titled, losing Hope in the West Bank. He says, when I was a law student backpacking through the Middle East in 1982, I met two Palestinian University students on a local bus in the West Bank. We got to chatting, they invited me to their homes, so I jumped off the bus and spent a day with them in the jumble dailies of the densely populated DJ refugee camp. We had a good time together. They told me about their Arabic studies at Bethlehem University. I was attaching a scheme to study Arabic myself in Cairo. We were all excited by education and full of youth and dreams. I wrote their names in my address book. We never made contact again until now. After 41 years. I dug up my old address book and found their names.

0 (18m 44s):
I wondered, are they still alive? Have they moved abroad? What do they think of Israel? Hamas and America? So they located them. They were still living in the same refugee camp. He said it was wonderful to see them again, but our reunion was also a window into Palestinian frustrations. The world has changed so much in four decades, but while I've traveled the world and had a fulfilling career, they remain stateless, stuck in refugee camp, fearful of Israeli settlers and soldiers. Worse, they have much less freedom today than when I met them in 1982. So none of this leads him to think for just one second. Wait, wait. What changed in 1982 and 2023? One thing that changed is the handing over of these areas of the West Bank to the Palestinian authority. The same Palestinian authority. Nicholas Christophe wishes had more authority. In 1982, the Palestinian authority had zero authority in the so-called West Bank.

0 (19m 26s):
Israel had military rule over the entirety, and in fact, as you can see from the statistics, if you happen to live in the Palestinian areas of the West Bank under the governance of the Palestinian authority, you are significantly poorer than if you are an Israeli Arab living in Israel proper, which is why literally no Israeli Arab wishes to leave and move into Palestinian governed areas. But Nicholas Christophe ignores all of that because it undercuts his argument. He says, back then they could travel easily around Israel and find work there on a weekend. They could relax on Israeli beaches. I used to drive to Tel Aviv for the day. Mahmud told me, now they live under a stifling system of checkpoints and passes then make travel difficult even within the West Bank. And the October 7th kamas terrorist attack has made everything worse. Why do you think that happened?

0 (20m 7s):
Why do you think that happened? Because of terrorism, because of the Palestinian authority, because of Hamas, because of Palestinian, Islamic Jihad, Nicholas Kristoff admits that these two men, these supposed moderates, his friends, engaged in all of the worst blood libels about Jews quote. When the conversation did touch on politics, we frustrated each other. They were certain that the explosion at Gaza's Ali Arab Hospital was a deliberate attack by Israel. But we know that's not true. We literally know it. It was a Palestinian Islamic jihad rocket that fell on the hospital. The conversation says Christoph became more tense when he got to the Kamas attack of October 7th. Quote. People were happy all over the Arab world, not because of the killings and bloodshed, but because it was the first time the Gazen could achieve their dream of leaving. Gaza said, one of them, first off said, I pushed back and noted how brutal the Hamas terrorism had been and how many Israeli civilians had been kidnapped or killed.

0 (20m 53s):
Sallet and Mahmud said they mourned the Israeli deaths, but wondered why the world wasn't equally outraged. The Palestinians had been killed in cumulatively greater numbers. They were disappointed by my focus on Hamas' barbarism. We are not troublemakers. They said, we just want to live freely like everyone else in the world. Well, clearly not since. What you actually want is to destroy the state of Israel and you side with Kamas. So there's that. But Nicholas Christophe ignores all of that in favor of moral equivalence. All of this moral equivalence leads to violence. Kamas knows all it has to do is get enough Palestinian Arabs killed in order to survive and preserve itself. The Palestinian authority, by the way, knows the same thing. Terrorists know they have allies in the media and in political circles to do their dirty work for them.

0 (21m 34s):
That's why they're so brazen on the streets of our major cities. They say the quiet part out loud all the damn time. They know Pseudo Sophisticates will parrot them. We'll downplay their sins. We'll treat them as brave emissaries of a revolutionary cast. They're free to pursue whatever evil they want because of their allies in the media, because of their allies in politics. And so they do pursue those evils and more people die. In just a second, we'll get to the streets of the West, which are now dominated. They were dominated over the weekend by hundreds of thousands of people who are actively rooting for Hamas in actual, honest to God, genocidal, Jew hitting terrorist group. It's an amazing thing. It's a mo a moment of what should be moral clarity, except that the West seems to have lost extraordinary amounts of moral clarity.

0 (22m 14s):
We'll get to that momentarily first.

Helix (22m 16s):
It's hard to sleep these days, but whatever sleep a I'm getting is because of my Helix sleep mattress. I've had my Helix sleep mattress for, I don't know, almost a decade at this point. It's fantastic. It was personalized just for me. So it is firm, but breathable, which is what I need because of the mattress, too soft to get back pain. If it's not breathable, I heat up at night. Well, Helix now has a new high-end collection called the Helix Elite. Helix Elite harnesses years of extensive mattress expertise to offer a truly elevated sleep experience. The Helix Sleep Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for specific sleep positions and firmness preferences. Go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. Check out the new collection today. If you're nervous about buying a mattress online, you don't have to be. Helix has a sleep quiz. It matches your body type and sleep preferences to the perfect mattress for you. 'cause why would you buy a mattress made for somebody else? I took that Helix quiz. I was matched with a firm but breathable mattress. As I say, go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. Take that two minute sleep quiz. Find the perfect mattress for yourself. Plus Helix has a 10 year warranty. You get to try it for a hundred nights risk free, so you have nothing to lose. Helix is offering 20% off all mattress orders and two free pillows. For my listeners today, go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. It's their best offer, yet it's not gonna last long. Go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben and get 20% off with Helix. Better sleep starts right now.

0 (23m 21s):
Okay, so enormous protests across the West over the weekend, and honestly, the West should be afraid because the West has been completely taken over completely and utterly taken over by enormous swaths of people who hate the West. At least it's been honeycombed. The most obvious example comes in London. Hundreds. A hundred thousand people maybe showed up in London in relation to a pro Kamas rally. About 11 people were arrested, but the footage shows fireworks being launched at the police. It shows British flags being yanked down. It shows, it shows every monument in London basically being taken over.

0 (24m 1s):
And by the way, how do we know that an infiltration has taken place? Because apparently a police advisor, one of the police advisors to the Metropolitan Police, a person named at Malik, who chairs the official advisory board for Scotland Yard, was leading the chance of from the river to the sea. Again, this is, this is a person who literally works with the Met Police. He's an advisor to the cops, and here he is chanting the genocidal slogan from the river to the sea.

14 (24m 27s):
Free, free. So what's going on out there? People, what is actually happening? You go on B-B-C-I-T-V, do we see any of this? Do we see any of this? No, we don't. No. You know, you watch Skype news. Do we see this? No. Even on social media, what we're seeing is when posts are going up on Insta, LinkedIn, Facebook, they're getting deleted. Why is that? What's going on? What's going on is global censorship by the Zionists from the river to the Sea Police.

0 (25m 6s):
That guy's an advisor to the cops at the Met Police chanting that genocidal slogan here. They were taking over Trafalgar Square. You can see them raising the Palestinian flag on the, on the tube underground signs. You can see them climbing on the fountains in Trafalgar Square. Again, look at the size of this crowd. These are all Hamas fans, because those are the people they're protesting in favor of. Remember these protests began before Israel was even doing anything in the Gaza Strip. They're done in response to deliberately, to Hamas. People are climbing the fountains in Trafalgar Square. Where are the cops? Where are the police? Do they have any control of their streets over there? And this is all part and parcel of a radical series of protests that began across the world in 2020.

0 (25m 48s):
The Intersectional Coalition, the Decolonized Coalition that was designed to tear apart the West and Western liberals are two blind to see that that coalition rides together. By the way, this coalition's been riding together since the sixties, pretending that this is something new is ridiculous. The Black Panthers were standing up for Palestinian terror back in the sixties. There's nothing new under the sun. Meanwhile fireworks were being fired at the cops in Trafalgar Square as well. It's just shoot them shooting fireworks into the air. Some of them were shot at the cops. Protesters shut down. Whitehall in great Britain as well.

0 (26m 31s):
Some walking down, some of the most storied streets of London taking over the streets. There's a lot of people who love terrorists. That is for sure on the tube Chance broke out of, from the river to the sea. Apparently, people being harassed inside the subways as well,

16 (26m 50s):
To the sea homicide green, there is only one solution.

0 (26m 56s):
There is only one solution into Ada Revolution, into Fadi, by the way, is a violent uprising. So this is people calling for violence in the center of London is what they're, and unless you believe that these people are, they don't like Hamas now, they, they really, really like Hamas. One counter protestor showed up with a sign that said Hamas is terrorist. That sign was promptly ripped down who's promptly assaulted by the crowd, because of course, they like Hamas. They're fully in favor of Hamas. Again, it would be very easy to make the case that Hamas is really bad, and to free the Palestinians would require that Hamas surrender. But no one's doing that. I've noticed zero people, no one is claiming Hamas should go away. They're all in love with Hamas. They're fine with Hamas, pretending otherwise is ignoring the evidence of your own eyes and ears. This guy's sign ended up on the ground, ended up being torn apart by the crowd.

0 (27m 39s):
And just in case you don't believe me, protesters, were bragging about Hamas. Here are, here are some of the protesters in London.

17 (27m 47s):
Hamas are their class as a a prescribed terrorist organization. Do you think the UK has made the wrong decision?

18 (27m 52s):
Of course, it's not Hamas the terrorist. It's America, the terrorist. No. And the Israel is terrorists, not Haaz.

0 (27m 59s):
America's terrorists. I'm freedom fighters.

19 (28m 1s):
They are freedom fighters. They're not terrorists as the media portrays them to be.

0 (28m 7s):
Oh, they're, they're free. Not the media's portraying them. I mean, sure, they wore GoPro cameras to literally shoot children in the face. The 45 minute video that's been seen by virtually no one so far, the the actual snuff video that was made by the Hamas terrorists is so egregious and unwatchable that almost no one can watch it. And it does contain video of Hamas terrorists confronting small children wearing Disney pajamas and then shooting them directly in the head. Okay? Those people, according to these people, are not terrorists. They're just misunderstood. What did this end with? Well, this ended with the next morning there, there's a monument called the Senate, half in the Center of London. It's supposed to be a war memorial for the wars dead in Britain, worlds Wars. I, and then eventually World War ii, it was decorated with a, a bunch of, it was decorated with a bunch of wreaths, and the protesters made sure to take those reeds and throw them on the ground, because this is what they actually think of the West.

0 (28m 54s):
It's not just about Israel, it's about you. It's anyone who believes in Western values is their enemy. That's why you heard that protester a second ago saying, America is terrorist. Presumably UK is terrorists

20 (29m 4s):
That the res have been knocked

0 (29m 5s):
Off and they knocked reeds down. By the way, British police officers during this protest were removing British flags from the streets. There were counter protestors who showed up wearing military uniforms, veterans, presumably. They showed up with British flags, and the police told them, you need to take away your British flags so as not to offend the barbarians who are supporting Hamas

21 (29m 25s):
Say, you can hold it, can hold it, you can wave it. It's just, we don't not,

22 (29m 31s):
It's cause you any sort of issues with the barriers. Have your flags just not on the barriers. That's it.

23 (29m 38s):
And yet, when they march down with hundreds of Palestinian flags, you won't say a word. There's way more of them than

0 (29m 46s):
There is. There it is. There is the key. There's way more of them than there are of us. That's the end of it. The end of it is there are way more of them than there are of us. Well, if that's the case in the West, we are screwed beyond all belief Meanwhile. It wasn't just in London, it was also in Berlin. Thousands of pro-Palestinian protestors took to the streets of Berlin standing in favor of Hamas. So, you know, the, the Germans have been pretty good in terms of being in favor of, of Israel in this conflict as well. They should be considering their past with, with the Jews. But they decided that there weren't enough domestic homegrown Nazis. So they imported some. So here they were marching in Berlin yesterday.

0 (30m 35s):
I don't want Sharia in Germany. That is nonsense.

25 (30m 40s):
You

0 (30m 40s):
Want authentic Islam. Everyone who calls himself a Muslim Ria on the whole world, I want the Sharia in Germany, definitely he's in Germany. Would you nullify the German constitution? Definitely. Definitely.

25 (30m 53s):
How?

0 (30m 53s):
Which one? How could you turn Germany into an Islamic state? How, for example,

24 (30m 60s):
According

0 (31m 0s):
To the writings, if you are in the majority,

24 (31m 4s):
If

0 (31m 4s):
You're in the majority, just as you explain this young Muslim guy, we are ordered to occupy Germany. Definitely

25 (31m 10s):
Muslim.

0 (31m 12s):
So if you're Muslim is in Islamic obligation to occupy Germany, definitely, definitely you're against those liberals that say, no, that's not true, and we should live together in peace. Nobody forces them to be Muslim. He says, to dispute us or you, you take us over, we'll take you over. Yes, definitely. That's why this liberal Muslim, liberal Islam doesn't exist. Is there a difference between political Islam and other Islam? Am I now in political Islam when I say I want the Sharia

25 (31m 44s):
Islam?

0 (31m 45s):
He says, I mean, Islam is in all areas of life. Would you say Islam is nothing to do with? Politics is definitely not so openly calling, openly calling for the overthrow of Germany itself. This of course, is manifesting in anti-Semitic Act all over the world. A French Jewish woman was stabbed and seriously wounded in Leo France. A swastika was then dabbed on her door. She was 30. She has serious abdominal wounds, A mask mattress in dark clothing, rang the woman's doorbell several times, and when she answered, he stabbed her in the abdomen and then dobbed a swastika on her door. So things are going amazing, and don't worry, it's in the United States as well. We'll get to that momentarily

Christian Care Ministry (32m 19s):
First, as a DailyWire listener, you're not just informed, you're engaged, you value freedom. You value personal responsibility. That's why you should check out Mesha. Medi-Share is a community-based approach to healthcare that winds up with the principles you believe in. Your values matter. And with Medi-Share, your healthcare dollars won't be used for medical procedures that don't line up with your beliefs. Medi-Share is the highest Derated healthcare sharing Ministry with a 30 year proven track record. It's not health insurance. It's community of 400,000 believers committed to caring and sharing with one another. Members save up to 50% or more on their monthly healthcare costs. And member satisfaction surveys show they like Medi-Share much more than health insurance. Why? Well, because it works. For a limited time, DailyWire listeners receive a $150 gift card when they join Medi-Share. To find out more, go to.com/ BEN. That's medshare.com/ Ben. Terms and conditions do apply. Now, listen, you know that the healthcare system in the United States has deep and abiding flaws. One great way to account for those flaws to make your life better in terms of medical care provided to you, is to join Meher that's doing a great job with their community-based approach to healthcare that actually supports your principles. Again, go to Medi-Share dot com slash Ben to get started.

Bentkey (33m 21s):
Also, as you know, The Daily Wire recently launched BentKey. That's our brand new Kids Entertainment platform. The content is awesome. My own kids love it. They're nine, seven, and three. They enjoy it every single day. Ben Key is dedicated to creating the next generation of timeless stories that transport kids into a world of adventure, imagination and joy. It's super easy to get. If you're already a Daily Wear Plus member, you already have Bentkey. You can download the app and you can start streaming. It's a $99 value you get completely free. If not, you should become a member right now. Go to DailyWire dot com slash subscribe right now. Start streaming the next generation of kids. Entertainment

0 (33m 48s):
Meanwhile, tens of thousands of protesters showed up in Washington DC to say the same things as the protestors in London and Berlin, which is to say there are literally tens of thousands of people in the United States who support Hamas according to CNN. As Israel continues, its fourth week of intense bombardment of the besieged Gaza Strip. Huge crowds of protesters have gathered to call for a ceasefire in Washington DC as in as well as in other capital cities around the globe. And they're doing exactly the same things that you are seeing from protestors all over the world. So first of all, you should see the size of the crowd. It's enormous, obviously. Huge, huge crowd. And not only that, they were doing all the same things that you would expect from a huge pro Hamas crowd. So for example, they were defacing American monuments ring up to American monuments spray, painting them, decorating them with Palestinian flags.

0 (34m 35s):
This would be a statue of general perishing who is general of the Allied forces during World War I. This would be a, a guy dressed like a terrorist who's attempting to stand up on a statue of the, a revolutionary founder. Here's terrorists who have people dressing like terrorists who have put Palestinian flags in the hands of war monuments and on revolutionaries. They're, they're graffitiing, Biden, Gaza, free Gaza people covering their faces and they've decorated Ben Franklin with the Palestinian flag, which would be kind of astonishing, I think, to the founders. Here they are with putting a kafi, the terrorist symbol on Ben Franklin.

0 (35m 17s):
Hard to think of anyone who would be less in favor of the Kafi than, than Ben Franklin. But it doesn't matter. Where are the cops, by the way, where are the police? This person, of course, has covered his face. These are the people walking your streets, folks. These are the people in America, many of them imported, many of them left wing allies. This is the coalition, the coalition of people who hate Western civilization and wish to see it torn down. And they're just using the latest convenience excuse, which is Israel pro kamas protestors. Were chanting, we don't want to state, we want 48, which is to say 48 was the establishment of the state of Israel. They want that reversed again, they just say all the quiet parts out loud, and then wait for Pseudo. Sophisticates like Nick Christophe or Thomas Friedman or Barack Obama to pretend moral equivalents.

0 (35m 59s):
I mean, After all, can we really take sides? One side says they wish to destroy all the Jews and destroy the state of Israel. The other side says, we would like to have peace, but we don't have a peace partner. Can't we find a middle ground? Can't we find a middle ground between this guy who wants to murder this guy and this guy who doesn't wanna be murdered there? Ha, what can this guy give over here? Here are the, here's these, these moral morally destitute people chanting about the destruction of the state of Israel

15 (36m 22s):
Tuesday 48, 48,

0 (36m 32s):
Just openly chanting this sort of stuff, right? We

15 (36m 35s):
Want 48, we want 48.

0 (36m 38s):
They, they, again, openly chanting for what they want, but obviously Israel. The, the problem is, it's so complex, it's just so complex. Meanwhile pro Kamas protestors decided to scale the White House fence, which looks kind of insurrectionary. I noticed they're only 11 arrests, apparently, climbing the White House fence. And not only that, they had Biden staffers who, who joined the protest, of course, because the Democratic Party has been thoroughly seated with people with no moral calculus whatsoever.

15 (37m 13s):
Ceasefire. Now ceasefire.

0 (37m 16s):
Now you guys says Biden, your staff demands a ceasefire. Ceasefire.

15 (37m 19s):
Now

0 (37m 20s):
These are all federal staffers and these are congressional staffers, all of whom are standing with Hamas. So yeah, should you be concerned about the west falling? Absolutely. Since all of the people who would like to see it fall are, are backing all this, the good news is they have many very intelligent people on their side speaking to the crowd, including Macklemore, that that's the thrift shop guy. He hasn't done anything since.

27 (37m 42s):
First and foremost, this is absolutely beautiful to observe today. I didn't expect to be on a microphone, but there are thousands of people here that are more qualified to speak on the issue of a free Palestine than myself. But I will say this, they told me to be quiet. They told me to do my research to go back, that it's too complex to say something right, to be silent in this moment. In the last three weeks, I've gone back and I've done some research and I'm teachable.

27 (38m 24s):
I don't know enough, but I know enough that this is a genocide.

0 (38m 31s):
Oh, he knows enough that it's a genocide. I mean, despite the fact that it's clearly not a genocide, he knows enough to know it's genocide. Also, I have to say that it seems like we've now reached a point where if all, if it, if it, if it walks like an Antisemite and it talks like an Antisemite, it is probably an Antisemite flashback to 2014. This is what Macklemore dressed up as in order to supposedly avoid the crowd. He dressed up as like a dur sterner looking Jew, long hook nose, beard. He did this for a concert. He was ripped on it at day. He said, no, it was a mistake. It was just, it was, it was an accident. I, I, I have doubts now I have some retroactive doubts. Meanwhile, the question is really in practical terms, how much pressure can be brought on the Biden administration to push for some sort of a ceasefire?

0 (39m 14s):
By the way, Iran is now pushing for a ceasefire, which demonstrates exactly who wants a ceasefire. The answer is Hamas. Here's Deputy National Security Advisor, John Finer saying, listen, we disagree with the pressure campaign against Biden. Well, they're gonna have to, you know, have a spine here.

28 (39m 27s):
A president has been under growing pressure from Democrats here at home to do more to end the fighting. We've seen protest as well. Probably the harshest is Congresswoman Rashida Tali. I'm gonna show what she put up on Friday. She said, Joe Biden supported the genocide of the Palestinian people, the American people won't forget, Biden support a ceasefire now or don't count on us in 2024. Your response,

30 (39m 50s):
Look, we, we strongly disagree with, with some of that messaging and with some of the terms used to describe this conflict. But what I will say is we know that this is a conflict about which there are strong views on all sides, including in the United States, including, frankly even within the United States, the Biden administration about the conduct of this conflict.

0 (40m 10s):
Well, you know what, maybe you should have done, maybe you should have kicked out the anti-Semites from your coalition, but you decided instead to humor them and put them on the cover of magazines and now you're stuck with them. And that's a real problem, because let's be real about this. On a realistic level, this conflict is not going to end tomorrow. It's going to take Israel time. All the people who are urging Israel to rush here understand the more Israel rushes, the more civilians die, the more meticulously planned Israel can do this. The slower they go, the fewer civilians die. The faster they go, the more civilians die. Just like in any war. Here, in fact is a member of the IDF IDF spokesperson, major Darron Spielman saying This is going to take

29 (40m 44s):
Time. IDF soldiers are set to be closing in on Gaza City right now. How soon Major do you expect the IDF will conclude its operation against Hamas in Gaza?

31 (40m 57s):
I think Wolf that it's gonna take a a great deal of time. And the reason I'm saying that is, you know, as we're gonna be, we've already provided information tomorrow, by the way, we're gonna be providing more information to you and to your viewers. You walk in, you know you're chasing a terrorist squad who just shot at our soldiers and that were involved in the October 7th attack. You chase them into a building with civilians, and we don't want to shoot because they're civilians there. You open their door in a hot pursuit and you see two shouts in the ground with no one there. You look down the shouts and they go down 40, 50 feet underneath the ground into a web. That is how Hamas is operating. In order for us to succeed in eliminating them and trying to provide his least casualties, of course, on our side, anti Togo and civilians, this is an incredibly difficult operation,

0 (41m 41s):
Says Israel is saying over and over. We're trying to reduce civilian casualties in the media being like, but we don't. But we're angry at you that you're doing that. And so we don't believe you. Meanwhile, the Biden administration continues to simultaneously push the line that Israel has to defend itself and also to push the line that Israel has to do more in order to avoid civilian casualties. Like how and all recommendations. Welcome all recommendations, welcome. Here's Tony Blinken doing this routine over the weekend.

32 (42m 4s):
We all spoke today about the clear need to protect Palestinian civilians. The United States supports Israel's right to defense against a mosque terrorist organization that attacked it brutally and that caress not a Witt about the Palestinian people or their future. This is the same right that each of our countries has. But as Israel conduct its campaign, how it does it matters. Israel must take every possible measure to prevent civilian casualty.

0 (42m 37s):
This sort of language is so stupid because again, the implication is that if it weren't Tony Blinken pulling the chain, that Israel would be going hog wild, just killing Palestinian civilians, willy-nilly, which of course is untrue. My mere Pete, for the thousandth time. Israel has complete air superiority in this region. Complete. There is no Air force in the Gaza Strip. There's no Air Force to speak of in Lebanon. Egypt is not interested in going to war with Israel, which means Israel has Willy-nilly air power over the strip. If they wish to kill hundreds of thousands, millions of people, they have the power to do it. They're not doing that. They're getting their own soldiers killed in order to protect Palestinian, civilians and Meanwhile. You have the West pretending that it's the opposite. Why? Again, to reestablish that moral equivalence, and in just a second we're gonna get to the 2024 race.

0 (43m 18s):
Joe Biden's pulling numbers are terrible. The reason his polling numbers are terrible is not because of this current conflict. It's more because when you set the world on fire, people tend not to like it very much.

Policy Genius (43m 28s):
First, the holidays not only allow us to spend time with family, they're a reminder of how important our responsibility is to protect our families. That includes planning to secure their future Policy. Genius makes it easy to compare life insurance quotes from top companies and find your lowest price. Their license agents work for you, not the insurance companies. That means you can trust their guidance 'cause they don't actually have an incentive to recommend one insurer over another. There are no added fees. Your personal information is kept private. You know, life insurance is really, really important to me. I got some, my wife got some, but it can be a complicated and an intense procedure. It doesn't have to be. With Policy Genius, since life insurance typically gets more expensive as you age, now would be the time to buy Policy. Genius makes the process a lot easier. With Policy Policygenius, you can find a life insurance policy starting at just 292 bucks per year for a million dollars in coverage. Some options offer same day approval and avoid those unnecessary medical exams. Your loved ones deserve that financial safety net and you deserve a smarter way to find and buy it. Go to Policygenius dot com slash sha Bureau or click the link in the description, Get your free life insurance quote. see how much you could save. That's Policygenius dot com slash Shapiro. Again, Policygenius dot com slash Shapiro. Go check them out right now. Get the life insurance you need. Policygenius dot com slash Shapiro.

ZipRecruiter (44m 29s):
Also, you may notice that we here at The Daily Wire, we do do things a little bit differently. We host several of the top news podcasts in the world. We launched a Chocolate company, you know, overnight we're taking on Disney Head on by releasing a hundred episodes of kids content. It takes a lot of specific people with very specific skills to make The Daily Wire what it is. How do we find and hire those people? Well, we rely on ZipRecruiter just like hundreds of thousands of other businesses. ZipRecruiter makes your whole hiring process faster and easier. Their powerful technology works for you to identify people whose skills and experience match your job. ZipRecruiter will save you time by letting you easily invite your top candidates to apply to your job, so they're more likely to apply sooner. They're trusted by millions of people. In fact, over 3.8 million businesses trusted ZipRecruiter with their hiring needs. You should be one of them. Make a positive impact on your hiring future with ZipRecruiter four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter Get, a quality candidate within day one. Go to ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Try ZipRecruiter for FREE. Again, that is ZipRecruiter dot com slash D-A-I-L-Y-W-I-R-E. ZipRecruiter is indeed the smartest way to hire.

0 (45m 25s):
Well, obviously, because Joe Biden is doing a very, very bad job. His poll numbers are in dire trouble, and that is largely due to the fact that, again, if every election, as I've said a thousand times, the referendum on one of the two parties right now, the referendum is on Biden. When the world's on fire, when everybody is looking at the news, what they see is an economy that seems to be stagnating, at least maybe on the precipice. When they look at world politics, they see an ongoing stalemate in Ukraine. They see a conflagration in the Middle East that was largely created by America's Iran policy. They see problems with China and Taiwan domestically. They see tremendous descent. They see serious gaps between how many Americans think about pretty much every issue of life.

0 (46m 6s):
And they look at the President and they see a very elderly man who doesn't seem to be able to keep it together. And right now, if you look at the polls, it's reflecting all of this according to a brand new New York Times poll, which is panicking the hell outta Democrats. The results currently show Joe Biden losing to Donald Trump by margins between four and 10 percentage points among registered voters in Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, and Pennsylvania. He's head only in Wisconsin by two percentage points in Nevada. He's down 10 50, 2 to 41, actually he's down 11 in Michigan. He's down five to Trump, 48, 43 In Georgia, he's down six to Trump, 49, 43. In Pennsylvania, he's down 40 Trump, 48, 44. In Arizona, he's down 49, 44 in Trump. In Wisconsin, he's up two. What that means is that if the election were held today and these polls were right, Donald Trump would win within excess of 300 electoral votes.

0 (46m 54s):
Every sentence of this new times CI poll is horrible news for Joe Biden. Voters under 30 favor Biden by only a single percentage point. His lead among Hispanic voters is down to single digits. His advantage in urban areas is half of Trump's edge. In rural regions, women still favor Biden, but men prefer Trump. By twice as large a margin, black voters are now registering 22% support for Trump in the States. That's a level unseen in presidential politics. For a Republican in modern times, you know, a remarkable sign of gradual racial realignment. Again, this is the New York Times between the two parties, the more diverse the swing state, the farther Biden was behind he led only in the whitest of the six. The world is falling apart under Biden said Spencer Weiss, a 53 year old electrical substation specialist in Pennsylvania who supported Biden in 2020, but switched back to Trump.

0 (47m 39s):
I'd r mad much rather see somebody I feel can be a positive role model leader for the country, but at least I think Trump has his witts about him. Another ominous sign for Democrats is voters across all income levels felt Biden's policies had hurt them personally. Voters gave Trump a 17 point advantage for having helped them and Biden an 18 point disadvantage for having hurt them. 71% of those polls said he was too old to be an effective president. That is an opinion shared across every single demographic and geographic group in the poll, including 54% of people who say they're voting for Biden say he's too old for the job. Only 19% of supporters of Trump view him as too, too old. Only 39% of the electorate overall feels the same. 62% of voters say Biden does not have the mental sharpness to be effective.

0 (48m 22s):
Voters 59 to 37 said they better trusted Trump over Biden on the economy. That's the largest gap on all issues. That's 22% positive margin for Trump. And by the way, nearly twice as many voters said, economic issues would determine their 2020 vote vote. Compared with social issues like abortion or guns, those economic voters favored Trump by 60 to 32. Only 2% of voters say the economy is excellent. Voters preferred Trump over Biden on immigration by 12 points on national security by 12 points on Israeli Palestinian conflict by 11 points. By the way, that demonstrates once again that Biden is saddled with a coalition that is at least in part, anti-Israel, Trump has no such problems.

0 (49m 4s):
Trump is the most president in modern times and is 11 points more popular on the issue than Biden is. Though a 58% majority support more economic and military aids Ukraine that didn't seem to benefit Biden on broader questions of fitness to handle foreign Affairs. The gender gap on national security is enormous. Men prefer Trump 62 to 33. That is a 29% positive margin for Trump. By the way, you know who actually runs the best of any of these candidates right now? The, the is generic Republican, generic Republican runs amazing generic Republican is, is tremendously ahead of, of Donald, of, of Joe Biden at this point. 'cause all people want is just an alternative.

0 (49m 45s):
Now what that means that the math could easily change. The poll also shows that if, for example, Donald Trump are is, is to be convicted of a crime during 2024, then those polls change pretty dramatically. What it does do, however, for Trump in the primaries is obviously it takes away the largest argument against him by both Nikki Haley and Ron DeSantis, which is his unelect ability. If the argument in against Trump is that he can't beat Biden or that he's the candidate at least likely to be Biden, when there are polls that come out showing that Trump is up on Biden in pretty much all the swing states, obviously that argument gets undercut. And this, by the way, should show Trump something, which is, the more you are out of the headlines, the more you are likely to win. If Donald Trump hides in the basement from now until the election, he will be president again.

0 (50m 26s):
It is pretty much that simple. He needs to run the reverse Biden strategy. Now, is Trump capable of doing that? Maybe, maybe not, but he should. He should stop posting on truth social. He should go in the basement. He should let his lawyers do their work at these various trials, and he should be quiet and he should let everyone focus on the fact that Joe Biden is terrible at the President thing. Really, really bad. Especially because there are new revelations about Joe Biden on the corruption front that are gonna continue to plague him. Andy McCarthy has a really good piece over at National Review. He says, would the American people have elected Joe Biden if it had been widely understood that Biden was bought and paid for by the Chinese Communist regime? The question presses because as it turns out, the incumbent president actually is what the media Democrat Complex falsely claimed.

0 (51m 6s):
The prior president was a clandestine agent of a hostile foreign power. Scandalous. As this story is, it is just as infuriating Joe Biden's collusion with China is back in the news because the House Oversight Committee has just released its latest report showing the big guy, as we recall from Tony Bob Alinsky's text actually did get at least one 10% payout from the Biden China scheme precisely matching his stake in the venture as it was sketched out in a notorious May, 2017 email. There's only news because the paper trail is now catching up with the outlines of the story. As Ann McCarthy writes, thanks to the extensive excavation of Biden's financial records by senators Chuck Grassley and Ron Johnson, followed by Doggett reporting of the New York Post. The outlines of the story were publicly available before election day 2020, but the story has gotten only more damning with additional evidence unearthed by the oversight committee, C-E-F-C-A Shanghai based energy conglomerate with which Joe Biden and his family joined forces was China.

0 (51m 56s):
To describe it as thinly veiled arm of Xi Jinping's monstrous, monstrous regime would exaggerate the camouflage. It was run by Y Jean me, who the Biden's deemed a protege of xi. How could it be otherwise? CFCs position as a privileged private company was established by the regime in 2006. All of this was knowable three years ago prior to the election. Not only that, it was pretty obvious that Biden was being bought and paid for by CEFC. If CEFC could brandish cordial relations and a business partnership with the Biden family, other targets of China's blandishments would be more willing to transact. It was a fact to Sandy McCarthy that Biden CEFC scheme was not an abstract plan. It was a dirty done deal in which the regime backed company lavished the biden's with mountains of money.

0 (52m 41s):
The scandal was right there to see in October of 2020. Americans didn't see it and Americans didn't believe it because the Biden 2020 campaign and Congressional Democrats and the media tried to portray all of this as Russian disinformation, but that wasn't true. So it turns out the Biden's dealings with CEFC were already underway in 2015, which is when Joe Biden was still vice president. Apparently, Jim and Hunter Biden didn't take CEFC money during the Obama years 'cause the op optics would've been terrible. But they were miffed that CEFC was already using the Biden connection to further its objectives. They believed CEFC owed them and they expected to be paid, and that was already in the works. And as it turns out, Joe Biden did get the money. On May 13th, 2017, James Gilead sent Hunter a now famous email that sketched out the structure and splits in the CEFC scheme, including 10% for the big guy.

0 (53m 28s):
The Biden side believed the deal had momentum. Hunter Biden's discussions with Yei indicated that at least for starters, there would be a quick $10 million infusion of capital. Interesting then that when Joe Biden bought his Rohoboth Beach Mansion, less than a month later, he paid $2.74 million in cash rather than taking a mortgage. There's a problem though, the CEFC funds, it didn't actually materialize and desperation set in, and that's when Hunter reached out to CEFC and said, I'm sitting here with my dad. In any event, hunter admonished the heads of CEFC. I'm concerned that you have either changed your mind and broken our deal without telling me, or that they're unaware of the promises and assurance that have been made. He said, don't mistake kindness for weakness the following day. He was assured that CEFC would be willing to cooperate with the family, and again, the money did in fact change hands.

0 (54m 16s):
So again, things are gonna get worse for Joe Biden before the election if, if Donald Trump stays outta the headlines. And that's always the big question. That's always the big, but will Donald Trump stay out of the headlines right now? Again, the headlines are, are obviously taken up by the war in the Middle East. It's quite possible they'll shift back to Donald Trump's legal issues as the year goes on. That's what Democrats are betting on. If Donald, here's the thing, even if those things move forward, if Donald Trump just stays away from them, if he doesn't say anything, he can easily be president again. Or theoretically, Republicans could go more toward, you know, generic Republican, which would be more toward DeSantis or Nikki Haley helping along that effort. As Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds, she apparently is going to endorse DeSantis at a rally in Des Moines on Sunday.

0 (55m 1s):
That is very early right now. Obviously DeSantis in second place. The latest polls show him Tide with Nikki Haley at 16%. Reynolds backing DeSantis in Iowa is gonna carry an awful lot of weight. It's going to sink Haley back into third place, you would imagine. As I've said before, the big problem with with Haley is that if DeSantis drops out, a lot of his support's gonna go back to Trump. A lot of that stuff is not gonna go over to Haley, which will basically confirm Trump's lead. If Hayley were to drop out, presumably a lot of that support would go to DeSantis. In any case, Trump is way ahead at this point. Alrighty, coming up. We'll be jumping into the mailbag. If you're not a member, become member Use Coach Shapiro. Check out four, two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.