0 (0s):
Republican candidates go right at each other to see who's up. For the challenge of taking on Donald Trump, Trump's fraud ruling could be the most damaging blow to his candidacy yet. And a mass crimes rate engulfs the nation. I'm Ben Shapiro. This is the Bench Shapiro Show.

ExpressVPN (17s):
Today's show's sponsor by Express VPN. Do you like your web history being seen and sold to advertisers? No, me neither. Get ExpressVPN right now at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (24s):
So preliminary note today, noon Eastern time. I will be speaking with Elon Musk over on X. There's an X space where we're gonna be talking about Elon Musk and his fight with the Anti-Defamation League and standards of free speech on X, as well as advertising pressure on X. So if you wanna check that out, make sure to head on over two x spaces at noon Eastern time. Okay, so last night was the second big Republican debate, and by big I mean Donald Trump wasn't part of it. And of course, there's no way to talk about the debate without talking about the fact that the front runner by 30 points in the national average right now was not part of the debate. And when the front runner isn't there, it turns into a bit of a crab pot, meaning everybody's just pulling each other down there.

0 (1m 4s):
There's no way to avoid that sort of optic. The question is, is anyone gonna emerge from that crab pot to actually challenge Donald Trump? Now here's the reality. Believe it or not, we're still pretty early in this race. It is only September 28th at this point in the 2008 race, which is sort of the last open primary race that we had before Trump stepped onto the scene in 2008. At this point, there was a running gun battle between Rudy Giuliani and Mike Huckabee for the Republican nomination. In fact, even in the 2016 Republican primary polls, Donald Trump was, was leading at this point, but he wasn't like way out ahead. It was still pretty competitive at this point. In other words, some things can still happen.

0 (1m 44s):
Now, is that likely? Is that, is that the most likely thing to, it's not the most likely thing to happen. However, it is pretty obvious that Donald Trump has some vulnerabilities in places like Iowa. So For example, despite the fact that Donald Trump is leading significantly in Iowa and also in New Hampshire, when asked which candidates are being considered by voters in Iowa and New Hampshire, a huge number of Iowa voters and New Hampshire voters are saying that they're considering candidates other than Donald Trump. So they're not locked into Trump by any stretch of the imagination. In other words, if something terrible were to happen in Trump's candidacy, there are a lot of people who would presumably shift over right now. For example, if you look at that c b s news poll from U gov, what it shows is that in Iowa, about 20% of the voter block says they'll vote only Trump.

0 (2m 31s):
In New Hampshire, that number's about 23%, which means 80% in Iowa and 77% in New Hampshire are saying that they'll consider candidates other than Trump. 31% of voters in Iowa say they will not consider Trump at all. 34% of voters in New Hampshire say they will not consider Trump at all. And meanwhile, I've asked bulk of the voters in the middle, the plurality of voters in the middle in both Iowa and New Hampshire, say they will consider Trump and other candidates. What's happening right now is that all the people who are considering Trump and other candidates are splitting about half and half for Trump. So Trump's got that locked in base of 20, 23% in these early states, and then the other 40 to 50% of voters who say that they're considering Trump plus everybody else, are splitting about half for Trump and half for everybody else.

0 (3m 13s):
And so the field is looking very fragmented. And the same thing is happening with the people who are not considering Trump at all. They're fragmenting among a a bunch of other candidates. So is it possible that somebody could theoretically consolidate the rest of these voters? It is possible, but the field would have to winnow dramatically, and that person would have to take votes directly away from Trump. It wouldn't just be a matter of picking up everybody who's anti-Trump. That's only about 33% of the Republican base at this point. They would somehow have to take the other 45% of the base and they would have to win that percentage of the base, or at least split it in significant fashion. So that's the state of the race. As we move into this debate now, the field is too big. It's pretty obvious that it's going to consolidate. Right now there's three candidates who are probably on the bubble.

0 (3m 55s):
That'd be Tim Scott, Chris Christie, and Doug Bergham. Vive is self-funded and not really running for president anyway, and therefore he can stay in for pretty much as long as he wants. With that said, the field is likely to winnow. And so by the time we have another debate, we are probably gonna be looking at Nikki Haley, Ron DeSantis Pence probably will be out by that point, I would imagine. So you're looking at probably Haley versus DeSantis is how this race is starting to shake down. Now, are these people definitely gonna drop out? Well, if you're Chris Christie, you're just waiting until New Hampshire. You're hoping that the anti-Trump base consolidate to New Hampshire sufficient to actually show some momentum over there. But if you're looking at the state of the race right now, inside the Republican party, Haley and DeSantis are the two most viable candidates. And when I say the two most viable, they're not uneven footing.

0 (4m 36s):
DeSantis is well ahead of Haley in Iowa, and they're running about even in New Hampshire. So if DeSantis starts to pick up some momentum, which has been the story of this campaign, is that DeSantis has been a solid number two and he has never caught fire. That's been the story of the campaign so far. Again, I'm somebody who is very supportive of Governor DeSantis. I think you make a phenomenal president. I like Nikki Haley. I've been supportive of Governor DeSantis and his candidacy pretty much this entire time in terms of who do I think would make the best president among the candidates who are on the stage. Well, with that said, everybody's still waiting for his campaign to actually initiate. And there, there there's been sort of a stagnation to the race. It's been a very stable race basically since July, since June, July when, when DeSantis first jumped into the race.

0 (5m 22s):
So did the debate change anything last night? The short answer is no. The debate changed nothing. So Donald Trump basically used the, the war games strategy. The only winning movies is not to play Donald. Trump didn't show up. He realized that if he did show up, he'd get attacked by all the other candidates on a wide variety of issues. He was attacked by them anyway for not showing up. Instead, he decided that he was going to jet over to Michigan and he was going to do an event with like a few Auto workers and, and claim solidarity with the members of the union over there, even though the union has shunned him, and they're just licking the boots of Joe Biden, who is simultaneously licking their boots as well. With that said, him avoiding the debate naturally means that everybody in the room is fighting each other and not Donald Trump, which is a win for Donald Trump.

0 (6m 3s):
And that was sort of the dynamic last. There was a lot of people talking over each other, people trying to get aggressive, people attempting to fight each other, and it turned into a mess. It was a bit of a dog's breakfast. We'll get to that momentarily first.

Pure Talk (6m 12s):
You know, a company is looking out for you when they actually upgrade your service and don't charge you for it. This is great news for new and current Pure Talk customers. Pure Talk just added data to every plan and includes a mobile hotspot with no price increase whatsoever. If you've considered Pure Talk before, you haven't made a switch, take a look again for just 20 bucks a month, you'll get unlimited talk text. And now 50% more five G data. Plus they're new mobile hotspot. This is why I love Pure Talk. They're veteran owned. They only hire the best customer service team located right here in the United States. Most families are saving almost a thousand dollars a year while enjoying the most dependable five G network in America. I use Pure Talk myself, take all my calls using Pure Talk, I take my calls pretty seriously. Business family, well, Pure Talk makes it happen for me. They have a fantastic network. The Tower Network means that I get clear calls and again, I'm saving a lot of money. Remember, you vote with how you spend your cash, so stop supporting woke wireless companies that don't support you. When you go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro, you will save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage because they actually value you. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Pure Talk Wireless for Americans by Americans.

0 (7m 14s):
Okay, so let's jump into the debate. So last night, the debate was moderated by a person from Univision, which I, I don't understand why Fox News is partnering with Univision, that that is a far left network. It's sort of like the M S N B C of the Latino community. So Hispanics and, and Latinos who are voting Republican or considering voting Republican in the primaries, they're not watching Visian. And, and every question that came out of Visian was, was biased to the left. And Stuart Varney from Fox Business, and you had my friends Anna Perino from Fox News, and through no fault of their own, I mean, I can't blame the moderators, it's easy to blame the moderators, but it was just, it was just a pile up. It was just a 20 car pile up on the I 95.

0 (7m 54s):
That's all it was. It was just a, it was a complete car crash pretty much from the beginning. There's a lot of awkwardness, a lot of weird moments, some entertaining moments. But you know, for those who suggested the debate overall, it's not a commentary on one individual candidate. The debate overall was relatively unwatchable. That's true. It, it was a, it was a not watchable event. Now, again, I think that some of that has to do with the moderate, some of it has to do with the way that these debates are done. When a person is asked a question, every other mic on the stage needs to be cut. That's just the way this ought to go. And then when the clock expires, then the mic should be cut. It should be that simple. If you strictly set the rules, then the rules have now been set. But nobody does that in these debates.

0 (8m 35s):
It's kind of incredible to me. I don't understand why Fox News doesn't just set those rules right at the outsets. You at least have some sort of order. The problem is that right now you have seven people on that stage all aggressively attempting to eat the microphone and get into that, that camera with the red light on, and they have no incentive to stop. So there, there's a ton of people talking over each other. There, there was a a ton of sort of non understandable nonsense where people were just, it just sounded like, like gray noise over your ear. So just on an optics level, it was not a good debate. Now, as for the particular candidates, Nikki Haley came in with some semblance of momentum. When I say some semblance, I mean, again, if you look at the polling data, she's doing better in New Hampshire than she was.

0 (9m 16s):
She's doing better in Iowa than she was. She's still third right now to DeSantis by a pretty significant margin in Iowa. And she's now in the scrum in New Hampshire, meaning if she's second or if she's third or if she's fourth, it's kinda all the same because the reality is that it's Trump at 50 and then it's like DeSantis and Christie and Hailey all between like nine and 13%. So she's got some. So there's no question that Nikki has gotten some momentum off of the last debate. And she came in very aggressive. She came in very hot. Meanwhile, DeSantis was planning presumably to stick to his playbook. His playbook is every time you come to me, I'm going to give you my accomplishments in Florida, which is a fine playbook. That's totally fine Here, abutted some attacks, some really, I think squirrels attacks by moderators talking about For example, the Florida education plan to ban critical race theory.

0 (10m 5s):
But it, it wasn't gonna be a moment where he sort of elevated. As always, these, these debates are not friendly territory for DeSantis because he is at least on the stage of the front runner, right? He's second to Trump. Everybody is second to Trump, but he, he's on the stage of the front runner, which means he has to fend off all those attacks. Vivek apparently had a personality transplant. So he went from the first debate where he was just aggressively some army, like over the top Sam army and just grinning ear to ear the whole time and, and insulting everybody on the stage to much more humble of a, he must've gotten the exit polls from the last debate and seen that it actually blunted a lot of his momentum and he decided to change it up. Tim Scott, by contrast, decided that he had to get more aggressive because he's also seeing those polls.

0 (10m 47s):
And what they're saying is everybody thinks Tim Scott is a nice guy and nobody knows why he's on the stage. Chris Christie was just Chris Christie. The one thing you have to say for Chris Christie, that dude is always Chris Christie. He's never not Chris Christie, he's always Chris Christie, except when he's getting Donald, Trump a Coke. But aside from that, he's always Chris Christie all and then Doug Bergham. No one knows why. And Mike Pence, he, again, I I like the vice president. He brought a heavy dose of awkward last night. So just in terms, there was a lot of cringe to this debate. Watching this debate felt like watching the earliest Episodes of the office before they sort of hit their stride. Where was all super cringe humor, or not sure if you're even allowed to laugh or not. Okay? So the debate began with several of the candidates knocking Donald Trump for not showing up to the debate, which is perfectly appropriate.

0 (11m 33s):
Donald Trump is your Republican candidate for the presidency. He should show up for the debate on every moral level, also on every strategic level. He definitely should not show up for the debate. I'm just gonna point out that strategically speaking, when you are winning by 40 points and you don't show up to the first debate and nothing happens to your numbers, there's literally no reason for you to show up to the second debate. Okay? But of course all the other candidates are going to, are going to attack Trump over this. So Chris Christie led the pack and attacking Trump for not showing up to the debate with the running gun battle for heaviest dose of cringe last night. I mean, this is like fatal dose of cringe here from Chris Christie.

2 (12m 8s):
And I wanna look in that camera right now and tell you, Donald, I know you're watching, you can't help yourself. I know you're watching, okay? And you're not here tonight, not because of polls and not because of your indictments. You're not here tonight because you're afraid of being on the stage and defending your record. You're ducking these things. And let me tell you what's gonna happen. You keep doing that. No one up here is gonna call you Donald Trump anymore. We're gonna call you Donald Duck.

0 (12m 33s):
No one's gonna call you Donald Trump. They're gonna call you. They're gonna ask you why you're not wearing pants. Why are only a sher and no pants? What happened to Melania? Where's Daisy? What is wrong with him? I don't even understand. That's who wrote that line. This's like the, that's the worst comedy line. That's a terrible line. They're gonna, they're gonna stop calling you Donald Trump, and they're gonna start calling you Donald Duck. Okay, Bob Hope wants his routine back from 1947. Whoa. So yeah, not, not, not a good line there from Chris Christie. He starts off strong there, right? He is like, you're not here. I know you're watching. The reason you're not watching is because you're, is because you're, I I was, I thought maybe he was gonna go to like needles. And back to the future too, say, 'cause you're chicken, you chicken McFly, you chicken, oh, solid stuff there from, from Chris Christie.

0 (13m 20s):
Okay, we'll get to more of this, of this bleep show debate in just one second.

Balance Of Nature (13m 24s):
First, as you know, I'm on the road. When I'm on the road. I gotta tell you, I'm even less inclined to have fruits and vegetables because the food in Israel is fantastic. But I'll tell you what is still bad fruits and vegetables, but you need the fruits and veggies because they're the thing that keeps you alive and healthy. This is why I rely on Balance, Of, Nature, Balance, Of Nature fruits and veggies are a great way to make sure that you are getting essential nutritional ingredients every single day. Through Balance, Of, Nature Nature's advanced cold vacuum process, the vitamins, minerals, and phytonutrients of the fruits and veggies are preserved. Seeing get that vital nutrition in every capsule. Balance Of Nature is a whole food supplement with no additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticides, or added sugar. The only thing in their capsules, Pure fruits and veggies, Balance Of Nature sent a bunch of their product down to the studio for my team to try, and we all love them. Producer Zach brought his Balance Of Nature of fruits and veggie capsules here to Israel. He takes them daily. I've been taking them as well. Obviously, if I'm taking them, that means they're kosher. So if you're one of my fellow kosher keepers, then you can also be having Balance Of Nature stuff. When you're disciplined enough to take care of your health, you reap the benefits. Your body will thank you. Go to Balance Of Nature dot com, use it promo code Shapiro for 35% off your first order as a preferred customer. That's Balance Of Nature dot com promo Coach Shapiro for 35% off your very first preferred order.

0 (14m 30s):
Okay, so Christie wasn't the only candidate who called out Trump for not being there. DeSantis also called out Trump. And this obviously is a much better calibrated attack than, so where are you? Are you, are you Donald Duck? This is, this is a lot better here from DeSantis.

3 (14m 46s):
Where's Joe Biden? He's completely missing an action from leadership. And you know, who else is missing an action? Donald Trump is missing an action. He should be on this stage tonight. He owes it to you to defend his record where they added 7.8 trillion to the debt that set the stage for the inflation that we have. Now, I could tell you, this is Governor Florida. We cut taxes, we ran surpluses. We've paid down over 25% of our state debt. And I vetoed wasteful spending when it came to my desk. And as your president, when they send me a bloating spending bill, that's gonna cause your prices to go up. I'm gonna take out this veto pen and I'm gonna send it right back to them. Okay?

0 (15m 25s):
That's a good pitch from Ron DeSantis. Now again, does that damage Trump in any serious way? I mean, Trump's not even there. And unfortunately, a huge percentage of Trump supporters don't actually hold him responsible for many of the things he actually did while he was in office. But if you're going to launch an attack on Trump, that is the proper attack on Trump. Come defend your own record. Okay? Meanwhile, Mike Pence decided that he was going to go mono imano with Chris Christie in the Awkward Lane. So he decided that he was going to talk about, he, he was asked about Joe Biden showing up at the U Aaw strike. He, he was asked about Donald Trump showing up and speaking in Michigan. And when he was asked about Biden, he, he dropped what he thought, I think was a pre-planned laugh line. So first rule of debate, do not have pre-planned laugh lines. You cannot predict when people are going to laugh, particularly when your laugh lines are this awkward.

0 (16m 9s):
So here is Mike Pence talking about Joe Biden on the picket line.

4 (16m 14s):
Look, I do disagree with something Tim Scott just said. Joe Biden doesn't belong on a picket line. He belongs on the unemployment line,

0 (16m 21s):
And then he, and he looks into camera waiting for, waiting for people to laugh. It's like, oh, no. Oh no. Now first of all, he's criming off Ronald Reagan. It's an old Ronald Reagan line. He says, recession is when your neighbor loses his job, and depression is when you lose your job. And recovery is when Jimmy Carter loses his job, right? So he's basically kind of twisting that line. But yeah, the, the crowd is like, no. So that went over like a lead balloon. I mean, meanwhile, Nikki Haley, she, she was very aggressive last night. She obviously was amped up and you could tell from, from her manner, didn't do poorly last night. But it was just that it was a very aggressive performance from Nikki Haley, which was kind of a difference from her last debate performance, which I thought was actually very good. Here is Nikki on immigration For example.

0 (17m 1s):
And what she's saying is totally right, is just that again, when you're, when you're watching these things, the cadence sort of matters.

5 (17m 7s):
Well, what happens is when Joe Biden waved the green flag, it told everybody to come. And now we've seen 6 million people cross the border. We've had more fentanyl that have killed Americans and the Iraq, Vietnam, or Afghanistan wars combined. We need to make sure that we are a country of laws. The second we stop being a country of laws, we give up everything this country was founded on. So we have to secure the border. The way we do that is, first of all, defund sanctuary cities. You see what's happening in Philadelphia right now, it's gotta stop.

0 (17m 37s):
So all this is good by Nikki Haley, by the way, all this is good by Nikki Haley. And she started off the debate in this mode, as you'll see a little bit later on in the debate, she kept getting more and more aggressive, but again, she started off solid. There's a reason why in this group of candidates, Haley and DeSantis are currently doing the best. And meanwhile, Vivek was there. And again, I agree with a lot of what Vivek says, depending on the day. And, and Vivek yesterday was talking about the, the southern border. And here's what Vek had to say about the southern border,

6 (18m 5s):
Militarize, the southern border, stop funding sanctuary cities and end for an aid to Mexico and Central America to end the incentives to come across. But I do go a step further. You're right about that, Ilya, I favor ending birthright citizenship for the kids of illegal immigrants in this country. Now, the left will howl about the Constitution and the 14th Amendment. The difference between me and them is I've actually read the 14th Amendment. What it says is that all persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the laws and jurisdiction thereof are citizens. So nobody believes that the kid of a Mexican diplomat in this country enjoys birthright citizenship.

6 (18m 47s):
Not a judge or legal scholar in this country will disagree with me on that. Well, if the kid of a Mexican diplomat doesn't enjoy birthright citizenship, then neither does the kid of an illegal migrant who broke the law to come here. Okay?

0 (18m 59s):
So, so what Vivek is saying there, by the way, actually is, is a good legal argument. This this has been a very, very long and, and interesting ongoing legal argument among conservative legal scholars is whether birthright citizenship actually was ever meant to extend to kids of people who are subject to another jurisdiction. So if you are a Mexican citizen, but not an American citizen, you come here and then you just drop a kid argue, is that kid there for an American citizen? There's a case from the Supreme Court in the late 19th century that sort of suggests that yes, this is birthright citizenship is the way that, that this is done. It would probably take a constitutional amendment to overturn that. There's an argument about whether you could do it with an act of Congress or not. It's an interesting legal argument. So this was the, the debate, the vague who showed up and much better debate.

0 (19m 40s):
Vague. The problem is that there was hangover from the last debate, vague. And the last debate, Vic was really obnoxious, right? He's the guy who got on stage and he suggested that every single person who was, who was on the stage was bought and paid for, which led to Tim Scott actually taking out a baseball bat and Clobbering Vive on the stage. And it was really at this point in the debate where things started to get outta control from, from here on in. So at the beginning you had some people making some policy statements, good, bad, indifferent. It was really here that things started to, to go wild.

7 (20m 9s):
I can't imagine how you could say that knowing that you were just in business with the Chinese Communist Party, and the same people that funded Hunter Biden millions of dollars was a partner of yours as well. It's nonsense. It's not nonsense. 15 seconds.

6 (20m 26s):
I wanna respond. These, these are good people who are tainted by a broken system. And it's not the fault. I think you of anybody who's involved, excuse some of us are tainted.

7 (20m 34s):
Excuse, excuse, excuse,

6 (20m 36s):
Not excuse. Thank you for speaking while I'm interrupting. Literally speak.

0 (20m 39s):
Thank you for speaking. I'm interrupting.

7 (20m 41s):
You have turn. You can't be on both sides,

6 (20m 43s):
Gentlemen. You'll have your turn.

7 (20m 45s):
One of the challenges,

3 (20m 47s):
Focus on the issues that matter. Business in China,

0 (20m 51s):
Sound listenable to you. If

3 (20m 52s):
I may, if I may address, focus on holding Joe Biden accountable. That's what we need to be focused. I actually agree with Ronda.

0 (20m 57s):
And then Ron jumps in. So this turns into exactly, oh my gosh, this whole thing turns into the opening number of guys and dolls, right? It's, it's, I got a horse ride here. His name is Paul Revere. And now you've got three guys singing simultaneously about which horse they're picking. Like use the, use the mute button gang. Use the mute button. Cut off somebody's mic. This is where it turned into, it turned into a mess. I will, I will say that, that Freudian slip by ve right there. Stop, stop speaking while I'm interrupting is pretty spectacular. Okay, we'll get to more on this in just one

Boll & Branch (21m 27s):
second. First, gotta tell you my sleep quality here in Israel. It has been improved by the fact that I, I, I told you this before, I brought with me my bull and Branch blanket. It's a thing I do. It's so comfortable. It is the thing that allows me to sleep even when I'm on the road. Well, your bedding should be that good. Start investing in your best sleep with Bo and Branch. They make the only sheets that get softer with every single wash. Bo and Branch sheets are made from the finest 100% organic cotton threads on earth. They feel buttery to the touch. They're super breathable. They're perfect for both cooler and warmer months. Their signature hem sheets were made with luxurious threads. They're made without pesticides, formaldehyde, or other harsh chemicals. Best of all, Bo and Branch gives you a 30 night risk-free trial with free shipping and returns on all orders. You're not gonna wanna return them. They are just that good. I, again, they're so good. I travel with them. Sleep better at night with BOL and Branch sheets. Get 15% off your first order when you use promo code Shapiro at bull and Branch dot com. That's Bo and Branch, B O l L A N D Branch dot com promo code Shapiro exclusions applies to site for details. They're awesome. That cable knit throw blanket, that's the thing that I bring with me. Awesome, awesome stuff. Check 'em out right now, BOL and Branch dot com, promo code Shapiro and get 15% off your very first order

0 (22m 32s):
Alrightyy. So the debate again from here, it started to spin out Pence also hit the VE Ram Swami again, more than the hangovers from the last debate is that Vivek pissed everybody off and everybody decided they were gonna take their revenge. So here was Pence slamming Ramas Swami, he again, he he they, they were going after Vivek also because he, he accused everybody on the stage of being corrupt. And now they're all like, dude, you, you tried to cut a deal with the same Chinese business partners, the Hunter Biden cut a deal with here. Here's Pence.

4 (22m 58s):
Well, first lemme say, I'm glad, I'm glad Vivek pulled out of his business deal in 2018 in China. That must've been about the time you decided to start voting in presidential elections. So we're nice to have you participate in elections. So let me, let me speak to this ish number one.

0 (23m 15s):
Okay, we're done there. That's it, that's all we need from, from Pence. But again, just demonstrative of the kind of I that people had for Vivek on the stage. Nikki Haley also could not stop going after Vivek last night. So this started off actually when Vivek Ramaswamy was asked about TikTok. So he had this very weird flip-flop on TikTok where he said TikTok should be banned. And then he made a big statement about how he was going on TikTok. Now listen, I think TikTok should be banned. I'm on TikTok because my view of this is pretty simple. I'm gonna go wherever the eyeballs are. I'm gonna go where the eyeballs are because otherwise the bad guys get the eyeballs. So if TikTok is available to people, I'm not gonna pretend it's not available. I have the same view of this that I have about ballot harvesting or about early voting. When these things are available, you have to use them because the other guys are going to use them.

0 (23m 57s):
And that's, that's kind of what VE says right here. But then he kinda goes further and suggests that maybe we shouldn't ban TikTok. So here's vague talking about TikTok.

8 (24m 6s):
TikTok is banned on government Bay government issued devices because of its ties to the Chinese government. Yet you join TikTok at the dinner with Boxer and implementer. J Paul, should the commander in chief be so easily persuaded by an influencer?

6 (24m 25s):
So the answer is, I have a radical idea for the Republican party. We need to win elections. And part of how we win elections is reaching the next generation of young Americans where they are. So when I get into office, I've been very clear, kids under the age of social, under the age of 16, should not be using addictive social media. We're only gonna ever get to declaring independence from China, which I favor if we actually

0 (24m 50s):
Win. Okay? So he avoids the question on whether to ban TikTok or not. And this leads to Nikki Haley getting very aggressive and some people thought this is a good moment for Nikki Haley. I actually don't think this is a good moment for Nikki Haley because again, Nikki Haley's entire approach here has been very gentile. Like she, she's been aggressive enough to attack people. But yeah, I I don't think this moment went over for her particularly Well.

5 (25m 10s):
This is infuriating because TikTok is one of the most dangerous social media apps that we could have. And what you've got, I honestly, every time I hear you, I feel a little bit dumber for what you say. Hmm, because I can't believe they hear Governor Haley, if I may got a TikTok situation. What they're doing is these 150 million people are on TikTok. That means they can get your contacts, they can get your financial information, they can get your emails, they can get, let me just say text messages. They can get all these things. This

6 (25m 37s):
Is important. This is very important for our

5 (25m 38s):
Party. Know exactly what they're doing.

6 (25m 39s):
This is very important for our party. And I'm gonna say what,

5 (25m 41s):
Say you've gone and you've helped China bill make medicines in China, not America, excuse me, excuse me, excuse me. You're now wanting kids to go and get on this social media that's dangerous for all of us. You went and you were in business with the Chinese that gave a hundred Biden $5 million. We can't trust you. We can't trust

6 (25m 56s):
You. Let say something we

5 (25m 57s):
Can't have TikTok and our we need to ban.

0 (26m 0s):
Sorry. It kept going like that. And then, and then Vivek had the temerity say, we shouldn't be attacking each other up on the stage when literally last debate. That's what he was doing. So again, the person who was rising up from the scrum in all of this was to say his strategy, which is, I'm gonna stand over to the side here, right? You guys wanna do your car crash thing? I'm gonna be like over here. It mainly succeeded. The one, one of the best moments that DeSantis had last night was his moment on abortion. So he was asked specifically about abortion policy because Donald Trump has been incredibly aggressive in calling out DeSantis six week abortion ban in the state of Florida. In fact, going so far as to suggest that it's immoral to pass heartbeat bills in the states, which again, I, I don't see how any pro-life person can say that. You can say they think it's tactically wrong to suggest a, a heartbeat bill at the federal level because it's not going to pass.

0 (26m 43s):
And, and it's just going to tick off independent voters. I understand the tactics, but to suggest as a pro-life for that it's bad to pass such a bill is of course ridiculous heroes. DeSantis answer on abortion.

9 (26m 54s):
Abortion was on the ballot in six states in 2022. Republicans lost all of them. Next year, abortion will likely be on the ballot in Arizona. That is a must win. State governor DeSantis, how are you going to win over independent pro-choice voters in Arizona?

3 (27m 11s):
Same way we did in Florida. We won the big greatest Republican victory in a governor's race in the history of the state over 1.5 million votes. We were winning places like Miami-Dade County, Palm Beach that nobody thought was possible because we were leading with purpose and conviction. I reject this idea that pro-lifers are to blame for midterm defeats. I think there's other reasons for that. The former president, you know, he's missing an action tonight. He's had a lot to say about that. He should be here explaining his comments to try to say that pro-life protections are somehow a terrible thing. I want him to look into the eyes and tell people who've been fighting this fight for a long time.

0 (27m 49s):
Okay, so, you know, good for DeSantis. Good answer. And then of course, DeSantis got attacked over supposed mis teaching of slavery in the States. And again, this is a good defense by DeSantis. So here was the reporter from Univision. Again, this is a left-wing question from a, from an M S N B C Latino reporter. I mean that's, that's basically what Visian is. It is a Latino M S N B C suggesting that the teaching of slavery in Florida talks about the massive benefits of slavery, which of course is not true. We've talked about this extensively on the program. It's a lie. It very much resembles the associated press standards at the, the, the, the pri the prior teaching standards that have been applied in the state of Florida are pretty much mirrored here. All it says is that slaves could use skills they learned during slavery opportunistically in order to advance their lives after slavery.

0 (28m 37s):
That does not mean slavery was a good thing. That's it is the same thing as suggesting that if you, if you went to jail and then you somehow got a degree while you were in jail, you used that after you went to jail. It doesn't mean jail was great for you. It doesn't mean jail's like an amazing blaze in any case. Here is, here is DeSantis rebutting this ridiculous question.

10 (28m 54s):
Well, slaves develop skills, which in some instances could be applied for their personal benefit. You have said slaves develop skills in spite of slavery, not because of it, but many are still hurt for the sentence of slaves. This is personal. What is your message to them?

3 (29m 14s):
So first of all, that's a hoax that was perpetrated by Kamala Harris. Take the out. We are not gonna be doing that. The line out. Second of all, that was written by descendants of slaves. These are great black history scholars, so we need to stop playing these games. Here's the deal. Our country's education system is in decline because it's focused on indoctrination denying parents' rights. We eliminated critical race theory and we now have American civics in the constitution in our schools in a really big way, just like President Reagan asked for and his farewell addressed back in 1989. Florida is showing how it's done. We're standing with parents and our kids are benefiting.

0 (29m 50s):
Okay, then Tim Scott, again, this is where these debates sort of tend to go off the rails and it does show who has limits and who does not. I do not like badly calibrated attacks or attacks that are dishonest. Tim Scott going after DeSantis on the slavery thing is, is really scurrilous. It's really scurrilous and it's beneath Tim Scott for sure. Here is Scott going after, going after Ron DeSantis on the standard, which again was not written by, by Ron DeSantis. It was written by a group of black scholars in Florida.

7 (30m 18s):
There is not a redeeming quality in slavery. He and Kamala should have just taken the one sentence out. Okay.

0 (30m 26s):
Ridiculous. I'm sorry. Th th th That's ridiculous. That's ridiculous. No one is suggesting that slavery had redeeming qualities. No one's suggesting that. And so for Tim Scott to do that again, gross. Don't like it. Okay, we'll get to more of the debate in just one second.

PrizePicks (30m 39s):
First, as much as I love watching baseball, I'm rooting for my White Sox. I gotta say my White Sox are awful this year, like a truly historically awful team, which means I'm not enjoying it as much as usual. So I have to rely on prize picks to make it more enjoyable. Prize picks is the easiest and fastest way to play daily fantasy sports. You pick two to six players and you choose whether they will score more or less than their prize picks projection. If you're, if you're a White Sox fan, always take the under. You can win up to 25 times your money on any entry, no competition against other people. It's just you versus the projections prize picks offers projections on pretty much every sport there is. N B A M L B N F l N H L P G A, college, sports eSports, tennis disc, golf, whatever you're into prize picks now offers Apple pay for quick and easy deposits into your account this football season. Again, if you are like me, a, a fan of say the Chicago Bears and you've just been watching the Painful Season three performance of Justin Fields, maybe the only way to make the NFL watchable for you is to use prize picks. Go to prize picks.com/ Ben, use promo code Ben for a first deposit match up to $100. That's prize picks.com/ Ben with promo code Ben for a deposit match up to $100.

0 (31m 42s):
Okay, so I've been a little bit hard on Vivic. He did have one sort of shining moment in the debate last night, and that was when he discussed transgenderism, which again, Donald Trump was asked, can a man become a woman? He actually hesitated in an interview on national TV about that. Vivek certainly did not have any hesitation on that question.

6 (31m 60s):
I have to be very clear about this. Transgenderism, especially in kids, is a mental health disorder. We have to acknowledge the truth of that for what it is. I met two young women early in this campaign, specifically on

3 (32m 12s):
Parental rights in schools. Parents

6 (32m 14s):
Have the right to know, and you know what the hypocrisy of this is? Even New Hampshire failed to actually get past a piece of legislation here. The very people who say that this increases the risk of suicide are also the ones saying that parents don't have the right to know about that increased risk of suicide. And I'm sorry, it is not compassionate to affirm a kid's confusion. That is not compassion, that is cruelty. I met two young women, Chloe and Katie early in this campaign, who are in their twenties now, regret getting double mastectomies and a hysterectomy. One of them will never have children. And the fact that we allowed that to happen in this country is barbaric. So I will beg yeah, he's right about this genital mutilation or chemical.

6 (32m 54s):
Now these,

0 (32m 55s):
This iss all good from, from a vague, the, the, the biggest issue with the vague sort, sort in terms of sort of how he speaks to camera is that every issue is the same level of intensity. but what he says here is, of course, absolutely right naturally he was then hit immediately with a fact check suggesting that transgenderism is not a mental disorder. Spoiler alert, it's a mental disorder. It's literally in the DSM four and the DSM five. I mean, it's literally in the D S M, which is a, which is a list of mental disorders, gender dysphoria, or gender identity disorder. Okay? The, the debate concluded with pretty much everybody trying to explain who they wanted to leave the race, what they thought the race was about, what the end, they're really only two candidates on the stage who are running to be the president of the United States.

0 (33m 38s):
In the end, Dessan and Hailey. Everybody else is up there for a different reason. And you could see it in the answers. So the last question, Dana Purino is getting a lot of crap for this because she said if this were a survivor, who would be voted off the island and, and like, is that an insulting question? I mean, half these people should be off the island. Not only should they be off the island, we should actually have, you know, like an alligator pit. And, and I, I think it would make it much more entertaining if every time they slipped lower in the poles, there's the possibility of death. I mean, it would definitely winnow the field pretty dramatically in any case. Here was, here, was Dana asking the question? Ron DeSantis said, I'm not gonna answer it because I don't like the question. Fair enough.

9 (34m 15s):
None of you have indicated that you're dropping out. So which one of you on stage tonight should be voted off the island? Please use your marker to write your choice on the notepad in front of you. 15 seconds starting out of the people on the stage. Are you serious? Who should be? I'm absolutely serious.

3 (34m 35s):
The, with all due respect, I mean, we're here like, you know, we're happy to debate, but I think that that's disrespectful to my fellow competitors. I'm not, nobody

9 (34m 42s):
Wants to, nobody wants to participate. Let's

3 (34m 44s):
Do some questions. Let's talk about the future of the country.

0 (34m 47s):
Okay, so, okay, fine, fine. I I will say that it was, it was very funny at the very end of this debate, like took the mask off of vague when it came to Trump. So this is the thing, look at that list of candidates again, who is actually running because they think they're gonna win the nomination. So Nikki, maybe DeSantis is definitely running 'cause he thinks he could win the nomination. I mean, back in December he was directly competitive with Donald Trump. Viva is running to be a senator from Ohio with Trump's endorsement, or he is running to, to get a podcast or he's running to do another, like whatever it is he's doing. He was asked, why are you running when you're basically just a, a Trump mini me? And his answer was, well, I am a Trump mini me. And here we go.

6 (35m 28s):
I think Trump was an excellent president, but the America first agenda does not belong to one man. It does not belong to Donald Trump. It doesn't belong to me. It belongs to you, the people of this country. And the question is, who's gonna unite this country and take the America first agenda to the next level.

0 (35m 48s):
Okay, the, okay, okay, fine. So the problem is that guy's running. So you can't do that. You can't do that. He's an excellent president. I love his agenda and we need to take it to the next level. He's standing right there and he's beating you by like 40 points, dude, like that, that's, some people here are running and some people here are not running. They're just there for the, for the bleeps and giggles of it. Again. Nikki Haley running Ron Desant is clearly running. Ve nope, Tim Scott. Nope. Chris Christie. Nope. Is it more of a revenge campaign? Just looking for his opportunity to, to run into the middle of a, of a room and start and start belching everywhere. Doug Bergham. I mean Doug, he seemed like a nice enough guy. I just don't understand. And Mike Pence, who clearly is there to sort of shore up his legacy because he was Donald Trump's vice president and he has to justify himself individually.

0 (36m 33s):
Okay, what are these people Seriously serious? The answer is no. Which brings us to Trump. We'll get to Trump in just a second. 'cause he spent the day not going to this debate. He instead went over to Michigan. We'll get to that momentarily first.

Grand Canyon University (36m 44s):
The Ben Shapiro Show is supported by Grand Canyon, University and affordable private Christian University with a vibrant campus in beautiful Phoenix, Arizona that's ranked top 20 in the country. According to niche.com, GCU U is a missional Christ censored university that strives to foster a culture of community giving and impact. Gcu U'S goal is to help you develop into a servant leader who makes a difference through finding your purpose. With 330 academic programs over 270 online, as of June, 2023, G C U integrates the free market system with a welcoming Christian worldview into your bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree Find your purpose at Grand Canyon University private Christian affordable. Visit gcu.edu today.

Daily Wire (37m 18s):
Also, everybody's talking about Convicting a murder. It's completely blown up making a murderer's narrative of Stephen Avery being falsely convicted for murdering Theresa Hoach. There are people all over the country commenting about how they've changed their mind after watching Convicting a Murderer. Well, this is what happens when you actually make a documentary that looks at the entire panoply of the facts. This week's episode is all about how making a Murderer left. So many viewers convinced that Manitowoc Police orchestrated a plot to frame as Stephen Avery Candace is gonna show you what actually happened in this week's episode. Take a look Coming up on Convicting a Murderer, the key was the biggest piece of evidence that viewers to this day believe was planted. It was a story that was really tailor made for Hollywood. It was on TV constantly saying It's Manis County. They're framing me. It's gotta be a setup because if I didn't do it, they had a plan to stop That seemed like almost everyone believes these filmmakers, what Are we word? Justice? What are we wording? Now? His body language comes across as very suspicious. It looked like he was caught. And that is exactly what the filmmakers led you to believe. Why are you editing my courtroom testimony? You should be still faithful to the facts. I started to realize more and more that this was an entertainment piece. This wasn't a piece of journalism like I thought it was going to be. New Episodes of Convicting, a Murderer are released every Thursday exclusively at Daily, Wire Plus. If you're not a member, head on over to DailyWire dot com slash subscribe to sign up for access to this groundbreaking series and the rest of daily wires content.

0 (38m 51s):
Okay? Meanwhile, Donald Trump avoided the entire debate, right? So everybody in the debate is tearing each other apart. They're, they're all, you know, going at one another. Final debate, grades, by the way, on this one, I'll give a chance to B plus Hailey. A B minus the vehicle will give a c c plus Christie a c, the C minus. I mean, that Donald duck joke was just painful. Mike Pence, a D's Tim Scott, a d and Doug Bergman, sure, he's great. I I I don't understand. And meanwhile, Donald Trump again played the war game strategy. The winning moves not to play. He instead decided to head on over to Clinton Township, Michigan, where he was supposedly speaking to Auto workers. Unclear how many Auto workers actually showed up to this thing since the u a w is in Joe Biden's pocket, because he's in their pocket. It's a, it's in a robos of pocket being in, in any case, Donald Donald Trump goes there and he, and he speaks about the Auto workers and he gets some headlines.

0 (39m 38s):
This is smart politicking by Trump. Again, he, he's, he does have an innate instinct for getting attention and for misdirecting the cameras to a place he wants them to be, which is why it is so all fired. Frustrating that for the last eight years, Donald Trump has not used that magical power in order to direct attention where it should be. In any case, he goes to Michigan and, and he jumps in on, on his trade agenda suggesting that globalization or what he calls globalism, not quite the same thing that, that globalism is responsible for, for what's going on.

19 (40m 6s):
So give me four more years and I will give you the end to this horrible globalism that's killing our country. I'll give you the return of the United States of America as the greatest and strongest industrial nation in the history of the world. Together we will dismantle the corrupt power structure that has feasted on the suffering of the American Auto worker and the workers of any kind. Not just Auto workers, workers of any kind. We will cast from power, the financial forces that have turned American cities into ghost towns to build skyscrapers in Beijing, China.

19 (40m 50s):
We will wield every lever of government to defend you and to hold accountable those who have profited from the betrayal and suffering of the American factory workers. So sad to say, as your 47th president of the United States, I will be your protector. I will be your advocate, and I will be your greatest champion. The greatest champion. And

0 (41m 12s):
Now again, do I think that a lot of this stuff is true? Do I think that manufacturing jobs are gonna come flowing back into the United States thanks to President Trump? I I mean, I don't, I I don't think that anybody has the capacity to bring manufacturing jobs like 1950 style manufacturing jobs back to the United States. That's not what the statistics show. However, is that a, a solid Midwestern rust belt pitch? Sure. His better pitch here is going after the Biden administration for their electric vehicle mandate. This obviously is true. Here's, here's Trump yesterday in Michigan,

19 (41m 41s):
On day one, I will terminate Joe Biden's electric vehicle mandate and I will cancel every job killing regulation that is crushing American Auto workers. I will unleash a thing called American Energy, stop the ban on the internal combustion engine and we will drill, baby drill and we will make zero environmental difference.

0 (42m 10s):
And so again, all of that is, and it's smart for Trump to go to Michigan. He gets attention away from the debate. Now, the biggest issue that Trump is about to face is actually this fraud case. So, believe it or not, all of the criminal violations that he may or may not have committed, I think three of the four criminal cases are bss. I think the one on classified documents is very difficult for him to, to defeat just in the, in the actual court of law because he says on tape that he does the crime. But those are not really the biggest threats him, the biggest threat to him. And the thing I'm, I'm sure that he's worried most about is this fraud case in New York. Now, the fraud case is absurd. It's an absurd case. So the law in the state of New York, I looked it up yesterday. The, the law in the state of New York suggests that the government is capable of what they call disgorgement of profits of a business, even if no crime has actually been committed against anyone.

0 (42m 58s):
So they're not charging you with a crime. They're not, they're not Convicting you of fraud. You have not defrauded anyone in the sense that the person who you supposedly bamboozled is not suing you. And so you and I make a real estate deal. I inflate the value of my real estate assets. You know, I'm inflating the value of my real estate assets. You make me the loan, we both profit. So there was no loss by you in the state of New York. You do not have to show a loss. The state of New York does not have to show a loss. There doesn't have to be any criminal fraud. They can then push for disgorgement of profits by filing a civil lawsuit. And that's precisely what happened in the state of New York to the tune of $250 million against Trump's businesses, which is wild.

0 (43m 38s):
I mean, that's wild. That's a, that's, that's a crazy regimen of law that if they detect, they think civilly that you committed a series of frauds. In other words, you just completely kept inflating the value of your assets in order to get deals at, at lower interest rates. The bank knew you were inflating. They gave you the loan anyway. The state can then come in, post facto after everyone has benefited and done great. And the state has gotten more taxes 'cause everybody did great. And they can dis gorge the profits from you by identifying a pattern or practice of fraudulent conduct. So it's not even about finding a harm. There's no harm. Now, normally in a case you have to show a harm. You don't even have to show a harm. You just go after people. So here is what is happening in that case, according to the New York Times and New York judge ruled on Tuesday that Trump persistently committed fraud by inflating the value of his assets and stripped the former president of control over some of his signature New York properties.

0 (44m 25s):
This is a real problem for Trump. If all those properties go into receivership, that is a heavy duty burden on his assets. So if he's using those assets to say, take loans out against the assets in order to raise legal funds, that is not available to him. It's a serious issue for him. Electorally speaking. So according to the New York Times, the surprising decision by Justice Arthur Geron is a major victory for Attorney General Letitia James in her lawsuit against Trump. Effectively deciding no trial is needed to determine that he had fraudulently secured favorable terms on loans and insurance deals. James has argued that Trump inflated the value of his properties by as much as $2.2 billion and is seeking a penalty of about $250 million in a trial scheduled to begin as early as Monday. Now, if that goes forward and these properties are put into receivership, what that means that Trump can't manage his own businesses, those businesses now go to the hands of a third party receiver who decides how to dispose of assets to pay off creditors.

0 (45m 13s):
For example. And one of those creditors now would be the state of New York to the tune of $250 million. Trump for his part, said that Justice Gro was a Democrat. He called him deranged. While the trial determined the size of the penalty, eng ground's ruling grants, one of the biggest punishments at James sought the cancellation of business certificates. That allows some of Trump's and New York properties to operate a move that could have major repercussions for the Trump family business. The decision could terminate his control over a flagship commercial property at 40 Wall Street in lower Manhattan, a family, a state in Westchester County. The Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan, his golf club in Westchester. It wouldn't dissolve the company, but the decision could have a sweeping impact on the company's New York operations. It would shut down an entity that employs hundreds of people working for him in New York, effectively destroying the company.

0 (45m 55s):
So this is like a serious full frontal assault on Donald Trump's financial wherewithal, his asset base in the state of New York, which is where the majority of his assets are located. And not only that, encumbers the assets for his kids. So even if Trump were to stuff off the political stage tomorrow, even if God forbid something were to happen to him tomorrow, it would then encumber the assets for his children. So this is a real threat to Donald Trump because again, if he does, doesn't have money to run his campaign, where's that money gonna come from? Presumably it's gonna keep coming from donors. You're gonna get money to his campaign, he is gonna use it to pay off all of his legal bills. None of that money's going to get spent on electioneering. So you wanna talk about election interference. This case actually might be the largest act of election interference in the entire election cycle, and that's something people should take into account.

0 (46m 39s):
Again, if what you care about is victory over Joe Biden, massive burdens on the Republican front runner make it very difficult for him to win. Yes, there have been some positive polls for Donald Trump in the recent past. We're also a year and a half out from the election. Four criminal cases have yet to take place and if his assets go into receivership, he's got a serious problem on his hands that herein lies the problem. And this is the case that really nobody made the debate last night. It's a very simple case. No one on the stage has lost to Joe Biden. There's only one person who's lost to Joe Biden Donald Trump. He lost to Joe Biden in 2020 run me right? That's what everyone on the stage should have been saying this last night. Run me. I didn't lose Joe. Biden, you can inc cite polls, but those same polls suggest that Donald Trump is running dead, even with Joe Biden.

0 (47m 23s):
And again, Donald Trump, those polls said Hillary Clinton was gonna beat Donald Trump. So there's only one thing we do know is that in an actual voting test, Donald Trump lost to Joe Biden. And so if you're willing to take that risk again, go with Donald Trump, but, or you could go with somebody who hasn't lost to Joe Biden before. In fact, Joe Biden's made it pretty clear that he would like to run against Donald Trump, right? That's the case that everybody basically should have been making on the stage last night and nobody actually made that case, which is always kind of surprising to me. Again, the polls are so all over the place. There's another poll out today from the economist u gov and it shows Biden up five. So inside the space of like a week, you have an A, B, C News, Washington Post poll showing Trump up 10. And then you have an economist u gov poll showing Biden up five.

0 (48m 5s):
Like that is a 15 point swing. That's so where the hell are, I don't know where the polls are. What I do know is that Trump has very major systemic hurdles that he's gonna have to overcome. That he is, he, this is not an easy election for him by any stretch of the imagination and every single legal ruling that comes down against him, justified or unjustified, it doesn't matter whether the decision is right or whether the decision is wrong. The only thing that matters is whether it stops Trump from from beating Joe Biden. Okay? Meanwhile, Gavin Newsom, who is like desperately hanging around in the hopes that Joe Biden dies. I mean that, that's all I can imagine he's doing here because the year is 2024, not 2028, he's sitting governor of California. He showed up at the debate, he like crashed the party and showed up at the debate.

0 (48m 46s):
I don't, no one knows why, except that that dude desperately wants attention. Best of me, I saw about him recently is every time Gavin knew some smiles, he looks like a movie villain who just poisoned you, which fact check true. Like Jet set it in from the 1980s. He's like the the lead character in American Psycho. He's gonna take you in the back room, put on some, put on some hip to be square and start going at you with an ax. Gavin Newsom. In any case here was Gavin Newsom crashing the party.

20 (49m 13s):
Governor, what do you think is gonna be the takeaway after this debate from the American people?

21 (49m 17s):
I think it will be clear that Trump comes out the dominant force after this debate. I mean, this is the X F L, this is jj. I mean, and honestly, I mean this is maybe, maybe a vice presidential debate.

0 (49m 29s):
So what are you doing there?

21 (49m 30s):
These guys are getting lapsed by Donald Trump. It's not even close. It's not even interesting. And I think what's most interesting to me is do they recognize that? Or are they actually gonna show up and run against the guy that's in the way of their prospects to be the nominee? It's a zero sum game. It's a binary choice. At the end of the day. It's not a ranked choice voting. So either these guys come after the front runner and distinguish themselves or otherwise they're wasting everybody's time. And I say this with love and respect and

0 (49m 57s):
What are you doing there? Then

21 (49m 58s):
Some of the advertising's being discounted for this debate, people don't even want to tune in because they know that fundamentally.

0 (50m 5s):
So again, I repeat the question. What is this doofus doing there? What's he doing there? Do you show up to X F L games randomly? Do you show up to the JV game, the JV volleyball game, like on a, on a random Wednesday night? Is that, is that a thing that you do? Very, very strange behavior from Gavin Newsom. Then Gavin Newsom drops an even stranger thing. So we know that Gavin Newsom is slated to have at the end of, I believe next month, he's gonna have a debate with Rhonda DeSantis. And it should be really interesting because again, these are two very different visions of governing the country. DeSantis wants the debate because he wants to be able to take it to Gavin Newsom and demonstrate since he, since Biden won't debate him, that the stand in for Biden is very bad at governing. He's hoping it'll give him a boost. Newsom wants it because anything that that gets Gavin Newsom on TV is something that Gavin Newsom wants. So Gavin Newsom then bizarrely went on a, went on a show on X and explained that because Ron DeSantis is debating him, this disqualifies him as president, which is a super weird take.

0 (50m 56s):
It's like Newsom has been following Ron DeSantis asking for debate, and finally DeSantis turned around and said, sure, let's do it. And then Newsom's like, haha, you can't be president 'cause you're debating me. Weird. Take Gavin. Okay,

22 (51m 7s):
A debate between you and Ron DeSantis, November 30th, Fox News channel Sean Ity. Yeah. In Georgia without a crowd. Yeah, just the two of you. Why are you doing that and what is your strategy? Well,

21 (51m 18s):
And it's, I don't know if that's the right question. Why is he doing it? Is the right question. He's running, I think, I'm not sure after tonight, but currently he's running for president of the United States. Do

22 (51m 31s):
You think he's still gonna be a, do you think he'll still be a candidate at November 30th?

21 (51m 33s):
That's an open-ended question. Part of me wonders if you know the fact that he took this debate, the fact that he took the bait in relation to this debate so that he's completely unqualified to be president of the United States. That's my humble first.

22 (51m 48s):
Why is that you're baiting him with the debate offer?

21 (51m 50s):
Of course. I mean, why is he debating a guy who's not even running for president when he is running for president? He's showing up at the Reagan library hollowed ground, and he puts out an ad today, not for his presidential campaign to promote a debate against the governor of California. I mean, this guy's distracted.

0 (52m 6s):
I mean, he is a big weirdo. He's a big, big weirdo. So debate me, but if you do debate me, that means you're bad. Is is a very weird take from Gavin, who's again, just sitting around hoping that Joe Biden dies. Let's be real about this. It's all he wants in life because he figures that since he's running a shadow campaign, if that happens, then, then he picks up the pieces. Meanwhile again, Joe Biden's administration continues to be a believe show. It's the thing that is keeping Republicans competitive in this race. Pete Buttigieg, the Secretary of Transportation, who theoretically should be the one involved, you know, he's the Secretary of Transportation in the U a w issues or Secretary of Labor should be involved, not Joe Biden. Joe Biden shows up to the picket lines, as we discussed yesterday on the program in one of the most corrupt acts I've ever seen from a United States president. He shows up wearing a u a w hat in the middle of a labor dispute, which is totally crazy.

0 (52m 48s):
And Buttigieg was asked, so does he support the UAWs agenda? Since the UAW wants a 32 hour French work week, they, they want a 40% pay raise over the next four years. Cost of living adjusted. They want defined benefits, pension plans, they want the moon, the sun, and the stars. Do you do, do you think Biden agrees to that? Buttigieg can't say yes to that because if he does, then Biden looks like a shill. So instead he tries to avoid the question

23 (53m 12s):
They're asking for 40% pay increase four day week, things like that. Does the president support what they're asking for specifically?

24 (53m 24s):
Look, I can't speak to individual terms that are in contract negotiations being worked out at the table today.

0 (53m 31s):
Yeah, you can't speak to this. How could, could you speak to the fact that the president went and wore a U aaw hat on the picket line? He speaks to that. Again, this, this administration is just awful. Meanwhile, the d e a administrator is out there admitting that fentanyl is pouring into the country via Mexico. And so why is the border open?

25 (53m 49s):
So tie all that together and explain why it is so difficult to stop it.

26 (53m 54s):
So first of all, I think we should start even at the beginning, which is that fentanyl is the deadliest drug threat we've ever faced. It is also incredibly cheap to make, and it is easy to transport or hide because these tiny quantities, the amount that you could fit on the tip of a pencil are, are deadly. And so this has completely changed the face of narcotics trafficking in the world. These are manmade synthetic drugs, starting with these chemicals coming from China, going to Mexico where they are made into fentanyl powder and then often pressed into pills. The powder and the pills are coming across into the us.

0 (54m 32s):
So then why is the, the border so open? That would be the big question. Again, Joe Biden very, very bad at the pre saying, okay, time for some things I like and then some things that I hate. So things that I like. Since I'm in Israel, I constantly get asked for, you know, travel recommendations while you're in Israel. So here's one a little bit off the beaten path. There's tons of amazing stuff in Jerusalem. There's, there's amazing sites like Masada, but here's one that the kids will really like. There's something in Israel, it's in a, a place called Bit CMEs called the Biblical Museum of Natural History. And it's very, very cool. So basically this museum was started by a rabbi who looks at the Bible in light of science. And he goes through the Bible and he, and he looks at, at what the language of the Bible means with regard to animals. So For example, when it talks about deer in the Bible, the word for deer actually means gazelle.

0 (55m 17s):
But because people who are translating the Bible weren't living in Israel, they didn't know the species that actually they were talking about when they translated the Bible. And so you actually have to go back to the original. It's, it's, it's very interesting and cool stuff. It's again, a merger of science and religion that's really worth the visit to you. Go check that out. The Biblical Museum of Natural History. I took my kids there yesterday and it was indeed a lot of fun. If you're looking for more travel recommendations, if you ever come to Israel, I'm happy to give them. In fact, I think we're gonna be putting out more material in the near future about some places you shouldn't definitely should not go if you are visiting around here. Okay, time for some things that I hate. Hey. Okay, so last night in Philadelphia, every liquor store in the city closed every single liquor store in the city.

0 (56m 1s):
They closed because several locations were looted. Shortly after the conclusion of peaceful protests against a judge's decision to dismiss all charges against a former Philadelphia police officer and a fatal traffic stop shooting to the police made dozens of arrests following Tuesday night's looting. And they said they were prepared to make more if things got out of hand on Wednesday evening. So out of out of concern for public safety, they shut all 49 retail wine and liquor stores in Philadelphia, which is the, the sign of a well-functioning city is you shut all of your retail establishments because you're afraid that people are gonna loot the living crap out of it. In fact, there was tape of juveniles looting multiple stores in Philadelphia. This was Tuesday night, here's what it looked like.

28 (56m 36s):
Looters, ransacking Center city stores first, then police headed it to Port Richmond and Northeast Philadelphia as caravans of kids and teens moved fast from location to location.

29 (56m 46s):
Here's what we've learned Overnight, at least 20 people are under arrest. Two guns were recovered. At least one police car was damaged and there are no reports of injuries. NBC ten's, Randy Gill Hall live in Center City near one of the business looted. Randy Police say the looters were taking advantage of a peaceful protest involving the deadly shooting of Eddie Irri.

30 (57m 9s):
Yeah, police call in these looters, criminal opportunists who went out after this peaceful protest had ended hitting stores like the Lululemon. This is in Rittenhouse Square is a busy night. Witnesses report seeing a hundred or more teens, young people, even some children ransacking stores.

0 (57m 25s):
It's going amazing. It's going great. The cops were completely outnumbered. So clearly the issue here is police brutality, not mass criminality. So there's one cop there. Look how many criminals, they can't even handle them. Oh my

14 (57m 38s):
God,

0 (57m 42s):
This lady just sitting there. I'm filming and laughing hysterically.

14 (57m 52s):
Oh, okay,

0 (57m 59s):
That's great. One protestor was, was standing outside a store shouting, everyone must eat. It's a communist uprising in which everyone requires their big screen tv.

14 (58m 8s):
Everybody must eat, everybody must eat, everybody must eat everybody. Everybody must eat. Yes, everybody must eat. Everybody must eat. Everybody must

0 (58m 18s):
Eat. Do you mean drink? It's a liquor store.

14 (58m 22s):
Everybody must eat. That's what I'm talking about.

0 (58m 25s):
And and meanwhile people screaming that there are free iPhones for everyone as well. So that's exciting. Gotta gotta nail that, that cell phone store and grab yourself an iPhone

14 (58m 33s):
God word one. Frees, frees, frees

0 (58m 46s):
Question, where are the parents? Where are the cops? Why have the cops not been allowed to arrest every single one of these people and their parents? Why is it that we are supposed to pretend that mass criminality, if it is disproportionately of one particular race, is in fact something justifiable? I promise you that if there were vast, vast crowds of looting white teens going into the center of Philadelphia and stealing things, I don't think that you'd be be getting the kind of national media blackout that you've been receiving for this particular story. And by the way, Philadelphia's not the only city that's been hit by this stuff. Chicago's been hit by this stuff. Seattle's been hit by this stuff. Los Angeles has been hit by this stuff. Obviously race ties into it. It was tied into the protest in the first place. The entire lie that the police are systemically racist has led to a feeling among a certain gr a certain small subset of a certain group that believes that they are impervious to actual law abiding this, that they've a right to go into stores and and steal things.

0 (59m 40s):
Now I don't even understand how a person has the moral impetus to believe that you have the right to steal a thing. Where does that come from? Somebody obviously feels morally justified. Everyone must eat free iPhones for everybody laughing hysterically while people unmask commit acts of criminality. And the cops aren't there to stop them. I mean this is, this is societally ruinous stuff, but it's being treated with a, with a, with kid gloves specifically. Because if you were to say the opposite, which is criminality of any race is disgusting, despicable and criminals should go to jail. And we need more cops to arrest more people who commit criminal acts so that they all go to jail if they commit criminal acts. Anybody who commits criminal acts should go to jail. If that were the actual take, then the immediate response from left will be disproportionate.

0 (1h 0m 21s):
Number of black people going to jail, racist, terrible, fewer cops we know. 'cause it's exactly what happened in 2020. Man. The, the wages of the wages of racial intersectionality when it comes to crime. Vast criminal be behavior. Alright guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We are going to be getting into the government shutdown and the latest over there. If you're not a member, become Member Use. code Shapiro. Check out for two months free and all annual plans. Click the link in the description and join us.