ExpressVPN (0s):
The Bench Bureau Show is sponsored by ExpressVPN Protect, your online Privacy today at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (5s):
A pogrom is defined as an organized massacre typically of Jews. Pogroms have been unleashed on the Jewish community across the world over generations by a wide variety of groups. Spanish Muslims in Allus in 10 66. French and German Crusaders in the Rhine Lin in 10 96 Cossacks in the 17th century in Kaminski. the largest pogrom was of course the Holocaust. Well, since the Holocaust, the largest pogrom against Jews took place on October seventh of this year when some 1,500 Israelis were murdered by Hamas terrorists. Since that pogrom, we've been told by our great thinkers that Hamas' brutality requires context. Nevermind. that body cam footage from Hamas terrorists reportedly included footage of Hamas killing a father, putting the father's baby in an actual oven, and then burning its death and repeatedly raping the mother While.

0 (50s):
All of this went on according to our pseudo intellectuals, Hamas terrorists invading peaceful villages and slaughtering babies and raping women and shooting entire families. They weren't truly engaging in a pogrom. They were in the words of some Columbia University professors engaging in a military action. They were in the words of some of our pseudo intellectuals engaged in a project of decolonization. No, say many of our thinkers. The Hamas pogrom wasn't really about killing Jews. It was actually about settlements in Judean Samaria, the West Bank It was about the breakdown of negotiations with the Palestinian authority. The massacres were anti-Israel. They were anti-Zionists, not anti-Semitic. And yet the Pogroms against Jews continue. On Sunday. Mobs of angry pro Hamas Pogroms stormed the airport in the Russian Republic of Dagestan looking for Jews.

0 (1m 33s):
Apparently they got word of a flight that had been scheduled to land from Tel Aviv. Here's what it looked like. It's a giant crowd out in front of the airport, screaming, breaking into the airport. 'cause they got word that a flight from Israel was arriving. You can see the huge mob of people outside this airport storming the airport. You can see members of military, members of the police looking on doing nothing. As this happens, the mobs broke into the airport. They ran roughshod through the airport. More footage of this, Just huge crowds, people carrying Palestinian flags, rushing through the airport again, looking to get to the tarmac where this flight was supposedly landing from Tel Aviv.

0 (2m 21s):
You can hear the AHU bars. Of course, some 83% of Dagestan is Muslim in practice. They're literally going to the doors, looking for Jews, trying to break through doors, looking for Jews right now. This is what Pogroms look like. They're running through the airport into private areas of the airport, obviously

1 (2m 46s):
Good, good

0 (2m 50s):
People telling them they're no Jews here. It doesn't matter. They're still looking. And then they finally make their way out onto the tarmac, and they're looking for Jews. I mean, they weren. They're not particularly smart. Some of them are looking for Jews in the actual engine, which would be a weird place to, to find the Jews guys. This isn't the evacuation of Afghanistan or anything, but they weren't being particularly shy about what they were doing and the words of this particular per girl and perpetrator. He was there to kill Jews. Somebody asked him, why are you here? He says, I came for the Jews.

3 (3m 23s):
The Jews.

0 (3m 24s):
Yes, he killed 'em. Listen that. That's a kid's voice. What will you them with? With the knife? These are children. Show me the knife. Why did you come here? Huh?

1 (3m 32s):
You shoot.

3 (3m 34s):
Shoot. With what?

0 (3m 34s):
With machine gun. You came here for the Jews, didn't you? Yes. Stay here until morning. Understand. The Pogroms also held signs reading. We are against Jewish. Refugees and child killers have no place in Stan. According to the Moscow Times local media report that some of the Pogroms were actually stopping cars outside the airport to check the personal identification documents of drivers and passengers as they searched for Israeli citizens among the motorists. And in fact, you can see this mob going around rocking cars. They attacked a bus as well.

0 (4m 14s):
Here they are grabbing a car, rocking back and forth that it's actually a police car. They're rocking back and forth. Looks like a delightful group of people. Now, people who think just like you, obviously they also attacked a bus. they weren children on the bus. they weren. No Jews anywhere here, by the way. Doesn't matter. The mere rumor of Jews sent them into a spasm of violence. Meanwhile. Children in the bus are trying to, they're looking on wondering what the hell is going on. Mobs around. Stan have been going around hotels looking for Jews, trying to break into rooms, literally just going to hotels.

0 (5m 6s):
They were literally checking people's cars. They were asking them for ID papers to show that they weren't Jewish. They're asking people for their passports so they can see their papers. Now, DAGA, Stan's population is largely Muslim. They've been radicalized for years. They've been radicalized both by their authorities and by their religious leaders. The Pogroms aren't going to end in Dastan all over the world. Demonstrators are appearing by the hundreds of thousands. Banging for Jewish blood here, for example, is footage from London over the weekend.

0 (5m 48s):
This is 100,000 people walking through the heart of London, chanting slogans, anti-Semitic slogans about the slaughter of Jews. Look at the size of this crowd. These are all people imported to the west under the bizarre misimpression that all cultures are the same and everyone will be equally likely to be an excellent Western civil citizen. Some of the rallier were chanting. Here's some, some some. Here's some of the rallier in Rafle Gar Square, and I will inform you what they're chanting. They're chanting ud. What does that mean?

0 (6m 28s):
That is a slogan referencing Mohammad's slaughter of the Jews of Jabar. It's a city in the Quran, again, that's in the middle of London. Here they are again in London, chanting about the love of martyr to them. They're chanting here by soul and blood. We sacrifice ourselves for you all. Oxa is in the middle of Western capital. You're saying, with our blood, we will liberate Alla Nevermind. The fact the Alla mosque is under the control of the Islamic wok in Israel, that doesn't matter at all. Now here's the story, the story of the Jewish people. It's a story of Pogroms from Pharaoh to Haman to Hamas. And we were told in the aftermath of the worst pogrom in history of the Holocaust that the world would never allow again.

0 (7m 11s):
Never again. We were told. Well, it turns out that much of the world was just lying. So long as the proposed Pogroms are accompanied by some political context, Pogroms against the Jews are just fine. Not only are they fine, they actually have to continue. In fact, Israel a state created with the explicit promise to protect Jews against such Pogroms must allow such Pogroms to continue in the name of human rights. That's why the international community right now is calling for a ceasefire against Kamas because too much of the international community, 1500 Jews slaughtered for the crime of being Jews. They don't count The Jewish state and the Jews have to just absorb that loss. We'll, pretend like it never happened. Those dead, they're gone and forgotten all that was. So three weeks ago, guys, it was so three weeks ago, the baked babies and the raped women and the kidnapped who are still under the tender mercies of Kamas Israel has to leave Kamas in place in the name of humanity, in the name of the children, After all.

0 (8m 3s):
If the Jews weren't being quite so uppity in their own self-defense would Jews be targeted in Stan. And in reality, the Pogroms never went away. They were just minimized because the state of Israel and its allies were considered strong. But now Israel and its allies, they seem weak. They seem vulnerable in the aftermath of October 7th. And so Jew haters now believe that Jews everywhere are vulnerable. And here's the thing, Jews everywhere will be vulnerable so long as Israel and the west are weak. In just a second, we'll show how the, how weak the west is and they weren. They're literally doing propaganda efforts in the media on behalf of Hamas. It truly is an amazing thing to watch.

Pure Talk (8m 36s):
First, Pure Talk recently announced they would alleviate $10 million in veteran debt by Veteran's Day. Thanks to your support last week, there are 74% of that goal with two weeks to go. Think about this, the US military is made up of 100% volunteers. These are men and women who willingly sacrifice everything they have for the country. And when they're done serving, they return home to a tight job market. Outrageous living expenses. This is why I'm so happy a private company like Pure Talk has jumped in to help. When you switch to Pure talk's, lightning Fast five G Network, they will donate a portion of every new order to this noble cause and can make a real difference just by choosing a superior cell phone service. Pure talk's, plans start at just 20 bucks a month offering unlimited talk text, more data, and mobile hotspot. Just go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro, make that switch. Let's help ease the burden on the men and women who have given us so much. Visit Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro switch. Do Pure Talk today. It's the right move. It's the American way, by the way. Their coverage is excellent and they same tower network is one of the big guys. Their coverage is great. Plus you're saving money, plus you're helping out veterans. There's a lot there to like. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro today to get started. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro today.

0 (9m 37s):
So the reason why the West is perceived as weak is at least in part because of the media. I mean, truthfully speaking, the, the Western media, they're just a garbage. He, they'll admit the truth, but in backhanded fashion. So for example, right now we keep hearing about the plight of the poor Palestinian people living in Gaza. And yes, they have a horrible plight. It, it turns out that it's terrible to live under a government that you elected. That's a bunch of terrorists. It turns out that that's a really, really terrible thing. Nobody seemed to care about that for solidly 20 years. And then the minute that Hamas launched the most murderous attack on Jews since World War ii, and then Israel retaliated suddenly becomes Israel's responsibility to protect Hamas' civilians. Here's the thing, American civilians, they're the responsibility of the American government.

0 (10m 18s):
British civilians, they're the responsibility of the British government. And Hamas civilians are the responsibility of the Hamas government. So what exactly is Hamas doing for its own civilians? The answer of course is nothing. The New York Times, which has been covering for Kamas throughout this conflict, printing actual propaganda on behalf of Kamas, including the lie that the Israelis killed 500 people at a hospital, when it turns out that it was a misfired Palestinian Islamic Jihad rocket that maybe killed a couple dozen people. And we don't even know that because it was Kamas giving the stats. Well, the the same New York Times, the Prince awful idiotic columns by people like Nicholas Christophe. So Nicholas Christophe has a piece today called We are Overpaying the Price for a Sin we Didn't Commit.

0 (10m 59s):
And that's a quote from Palestinians. And here's what Nicholas Christoph says, moral idiot ni Nicholas Christophe, a person who, again, you wanna show your neck to terrorists. This is a great way for the West to do it. Cool. The most consequential decision Israel will face in the coming days is how hard to continue hitting Gaza should it undertake a month's long ground invasion. Continue with large scale aerial bombardment, allow fuel into Gaza to keep hospitals running. Over the last week I've spent reporting in Israel and the West Bank. I've tried to listen and learn. So first of all, we should note he's not reporting from Gaza. Why is Nicholas Christophe not reporting from Gaza? Because Hamas controls Gaza Hamas controls Gaza. All they do is allow you to report what they want you to report. But he's happy to run around Israel, no problem. So let me share why I believe someday we'll look back at this moment and see a profound moral and policy failure says Nicholas Christoff.

0 (11m 40s):
So what exactly is the profound moral and policy failure? The profound moral and policy failure is not stopping the Jews from defending themselves. He says, to conclude his column, the United Nations Secretary General Antonio Gutierrez has condemned what he called clear violations of international humanitarian law. We are witnessing in Gaza, the Biden administration, which in the context of Ukraine constantly speaks of international law, viewed a security council resolution, calling for humanitarian pauses to deliver aid. Every account I've heard from Gaza this past week, including directly from people there who despise Kamas, suggest the civilian toll has been horrendous. One gauge that at least 53 UN staff members have been killed so far, including teachers and engineer, a psychologist and a gynecologist.

0 (12m 21s):
And now the suffering in Gaza is set to get much worse. That's partly because hospitals are running out of diesel fuel and Israel is not allowing fuel into the territory. I understand the reasons as Nicholas Christophe Kamas could use diesel fuel for its attacks on Israelis and his military mil. An Israeli military spokesman also told me the un alarmist may be exaggerating. The shortages, however, says that Nicholas Kristoph Israel faces an agonizing challenge. A neighboring territory is ruled by well-armed terrorists who have committed unimaginable atrocities aimed to commit more, and now shelter and tunnels beneath the population, more than 2 million people. It is a nightmare. But the sober question must be what policies will reduce the risk, not inflam it, while honoring the intrinsic value of Palestinian life as well as Israeli life. People will answer that question in different ways. Says moral exemplar.

0 (13m 1s):
Nicola Christophe, and I don't claim to have all the answers, but I think someday we will look back and who at both the Hamas butchering Israel and at the worsening tableau of suffering in Gaza in which we are complicit. So you see, according to Nicholas Christophe the West, in allowing Israel to kill terrorists, in saying that Israel should in fact wipe Kamas off the map is just as bad as Kamas Pure moral equivalents. You know who loves that stuff? You know who loves that stuff? Kamas. Kamas loves it. They love it because you know who caress literally zero about Palestinian. Civilians, Hamas, they don't care at all about them, but they know that you care about them. And so if the idea is that they get to survive by abusing their own citizens and you are gonna go along with that, well, you've been complicit in the continual rule of a terrorist group, which is the alternative.

0 (13m 44s):
There's not a third alternative. Hamas either goes or Hamas stays. There is no, there's no third move here. We get to more on this in just one second. But again, the West constantly bearing its neck to people who wish to chop it. Get to that one in one second.

Policy Genius (13m 58s):
First, you need life insurance. It's a dangerous world out there, not just because of everything going on, but just generally you need life insurance. Gotta make sure that your family is taken care of in case, God forbid something happens to you. Policy Genius makes it easy to compare life insurance quotes from top companies and find your lowest price. Their license agents work for you, not the insurance companies, which means you can trust their guidance. They don't have an incentive to recommend one insurer over another. There are no added fees. Your personal information is kept private. It's super satisfying to check life insurance off your to-Do list makes you feel like your family is taken care of. God forbid something happens to you. A good life insurance plan can give you peace of mind that if something happens to you, your family will be able to cover mortgage payments, college costs, or other expenses. Life insurance through your workplace might not offer enough protection for your family's needs, and it's not gonna follow you if you leave your job. Since life insurance typically gets more expensive as we age, now would be the time to buy. PolicyGenius makes the process super easy with PolicyGenius. Find life insurance policies that start just 292 bucks per year from a million dollars in coverage. Some options offer same day approval and avoid those unnecessary medical exams. Your loved ones deserve a financial safety net. You deserve a smarter way to find and buy it. Go to policygenius.com/ Shapiro or click the link in the description, Get your free life insurance quote. see how much you could save. That's policygenius.com/ Shapiro. So again, the West's pseudo intellectual, seem laser focused on enabling some of the worst people on the planet. The New York Times ran a piece, again, just every op-ed from the New York Times is the same. It's really about how in the end it's Israel to blame. Israel's the real problem.

0 (15m 19s):
The New York Times ran a piece yesterday from Dr. Abu Saia, a pediatrician, a Kamal Awan hospital in Northern Gaza called, I'm a pediatrician in Gaza. Please save us from this horror. I checked, there is literally no mention of anything Hamas did in this piece. Nothing. Zero mention of it and the New York Times printed it because of course the idea is that Israel is responsible for everything that is going on in the Gaza Strip, which presumably is also why the United Nations, as I've said before, the most isly of international politics of wretched hive, of scum and villainy voted 120 in favor, 14 against 45 abstentions in favor of a ceasefire that would only benefit Hamas. That is literally the, the result of this. By the way, some of your favorite moral nations like Ukraine, abstained Ukraine, which demanded that Israel handover iron dome to it.

0 (16m 5s):
Ukraine abstained from this particular vote, Meanwhile while begging an American doorstep for tens of billions of dollars to defend from Russian Predations Ukraine. Abstained. I'm just pointing out Ukraine here. 'cause for all the talk about how everybody owes Ukraine. Ukraine at a certain point might actually wanna decide who its friends are. In any case, a huge number of nations actually abstain. That included Germany, which abstain Finland abstain Canada abstain. Only 14 nations voted against the ceasefire resolution from the United Nations. That included the United States, Tonga, Papua, no Guinea, Paraguay, the Marshall Islands, Micronesia, Nauru, Guatemala, Croatia, Czech, Czechoslovakia, Fiji and Austria.

0 (16m 48s):
All of the other, all of the other western nations, places like France. France voted in favor of the, of the ceasefire. The uk the UK abstained and the the, you wanna show weakness. This is the way you show weakness. And again, it it's all a game. It's all a game that's being played by Hamas using the UN as its cutout. Here was the UN chief Antonio Gutierrez, who the, the other day was trying to contextualize the mass murder of Jews in Israel by talking about Arab Israel history. Wrongly, of course, here he was saying, it's getting desperate in Gaza. I mean, I I would imagine it's getting desperate in Gaza. You know who could solve that problem today? Hamas by surrendering.

0 (17m 28s):
That's it. All Hamas has to do is walk out with his hands up and hand over the hostages and then it's all over. Magically it's all over. But no one in the UN is calling for that. There's not a resolution for Hamas to surrender. There's not even resolution from Kamas to surrender the hostages at this point. Here's the un chief,

6 (17m 44s):
And I repeat my utter condemnation of the appalling attacks perpetrated by Hamas. There is no justification ever for the killing, enduring and abduction of civilians. The situation in Gaza is growing more desperate by the Howard. I regret that instead of a critical, immediate humanitarian pause supported by the international community, Israel has intensified its military operations. The number of civilians who have been killed and injured is totally unacceptable.

0 (18m 21s):
Oh, is it unacceptable? So who's to blame for that? I mean, the answer of course is Hamas is to blame for that as we'll. Explain in just a second. They're literally maximizing civilian casualties by putting civilians on top of their tunnels. And, and by the way, they have plenty of supplies. Hamas is underground with plenty of supplies we'll get to in just a moment, but leave it to the morally blind or the morally OBT twos to again promote the interest of Hamas. Here is Antisemite extraordinary Jeremy Corbin calling for a ceasefire.

7 (18m 46s):
The killings are wrong. The killing of young people at a music festival in the Negev was wrong.

0 (18m 52s):
Was it wrong? The

7 (18m 53s):
Collective punishment of the people of Gaza, oh,

0 (18m 55s):
They're similarly wrong. They're the same,

7 (18m 57s):
Have died. And if this doesn't stop, thousands more will die. There has to be at way forward.

0 (19m 4s):
Shut this tool up. He's it, it's, it's just, it, it's ama. Let's start with the ceasefire. Now he's the same thing from Bernie Sanders, again, as Jewish as a ham sandwich quote, the humanitarian situation in Gaza is dire and getting worse by the minute. Israel must obey international law and allow innocent men, women and children, the food, water, medical supplies, and fuel desperately needed. Now, how does he propose that it gets to the innocent men, women, and children? Hamas controls all of the areas of import. How does he expect that to happen? Meanwhile, you have other Democrats who are trying to warn Joe Biden into abandoning Israel that would include leader of the progressive Congressional caucus per mil Jayapal, who's literally warning Joe Biden to stop being so supportive of those damned Jews. He,

8 (19m 39s):
He is, I think, you know, going to be challenged to explain an issue of this moral significance to people. The American people are actually quite far away from where the President and even Congress, the majority of Congress has been on Israel and Gaza. They, they support the right for Israel to defend itself to exist, but they do not support a war crime exchange for another war crime. And I think the President has to be careful about that.

0 (20m 10s):
It's a war crime exchange for a Hamas is desperate to equate its slaughter of babies and rape of women with Israel attempting to kill Hamas terrorists. They're desperate for this and the West is giving it to them on a platter. At least the Western left. The western left is giving it to them on an absolute platter. You know who loves this Hamas? No one loves this more than Hamas. They love it. They love every aspect of this. In one second, we'll get to just Hamas. Hamas loves this. And also we'll get to the fact that it's weird, the international left. They don't seem all that concern about certain types of refugees, even Muslim refugees. As it turns out, against that momentarily

Tax Network USA (20m 39s):
first, the October 15th tax deadline has just passed. I know many of you might be dreading the stress of filing your taxes. Filing your taxes can be a long, excruciating process. But if you fail to file, you'll start to pile penalties on your tax debt. That's why you need to check out Tax Network. USA, the team at Tax Network, USA has a track record of success. They've reduced tax debts for numerous clients, totaling over $1 billion. Whether you're looking at a $10,000 or $1 million tax debt, they can help you with the settlement. Doesn't matter if you haven't filed in a year, five years, even a whole decade tax network, USA is equipped to secure the best settlement for you. Their expert attorneys and tax professionals can help resolve all tax cases no matter how they started. Do not let tax debt control your life any longer. Take the first step toward resolving your tax issues, visit Tax Network USA dot com slash Shapiro. That is Tax Network USA dot com slash Shapiro today. Again, Tax Network USA dot com slash Shapiro, go check them out right now. If you're caught up in tax debt, it can absolutely ruin your life. Don't let it fix the problem right now by going and visiting our friends over at Tax Network USA dot com slash Shapiro to get started.

0 (21m 39s):
So, as I say, Hamas is, is loving this. Again, the hypocrisy of the international community here is truly astonishing. Truly astonishing in the double standard is amazing. So un UN agencies, for example, are currently, you haven't heard this story because it's not important to you and it's not important to you because it's not important to the media because it doesn't involve the Jews. That's the way that let's be real about this. That's why people care. If this involves Muslim on Muslim issues, no one cares. No one caress that. There have been several million Syrian refugees who have been shuttled back and forth in Turkey and Syria for years. No one cares about that. No one, no one caress that hundreds of thousands of Syrian civilians have been killed by the Assad regime. In fact, Barack Obama pretended to care that he cared so little that he handed it over to the Russians.

0 (22m 20s):
Well now, according to the Voice of America, UN agencies are warning that Pakistan's planned expulsion of more than a million undocumented foreign nationals risks triggering a human rights catastrophe. What's happening? Well, apparently Pakistan on November one is going to deport 1.4 million Afghans back to the Taliban, 1.4 million Afghans back to the Taliban. Apparently the UN refugee agency, U-N-H-C-R reports that Pakistan is currently holding 3.7 million Afghan refugees, 700 of thousand of whom fled Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover, 1.7 million are deemed to be in Pakistan illegally. Pakistan says that those who are registered as refugees, they don't have to worry, but everyone else is going to be returned to the Taliban.

0 (23m 5s):
So things are going great. No, nobody cares about that. No one cares about that. Why doesn't anyone care about that? Well, because that might mean condemning Pakistan. We can't condemn Pakistan. We wouldn't want that. We wouldn't wanna get involved in that. That whole problem of, you know, in Islamic dictatorship, that masquerade is a democracy. When, when more when. But when it comes to Israel, we have to be ugh. That that's when, that's when human rights concerns are at their apex, is when the Jews respond to violence against the Jews. And as I say, Hamas could not be more excited about this because they're very clear about what they wanna do. And one of the most amazing things that Hamas is using to its own benefit is the paternalistic sense that Westerners have about third worlders. I mean, it really is an amazing thing. There are people, the the Hamas just says out loud, over and over and over, we do not care about our civilians. We want our civilians to die.

0 (23m 46s):
We are planting tunnels beneath our, they say it like out loud all the time, every day. And the West is like, well, but really you care about your civilians. And so if something bad is happening to the civilians, probably it's the Jews. Probably it's the Jews. I mean, here's Ismael Hania. Hania is the political leader of Hamas. He's living in great style and luxury over in Qatar where he and his group have embezzled hundreds of millions of dollars from their own citizens. And here he is saying, what we actually need is the blood of more women and children. That's what we need. He says, to stop this war against our children, women and the elderly, our masks, our mosques, our universities, and our homes.

0 (24m 28s):
This brutal aggression must stop. This new Holocaust must stop the gull of these people. I've said this before, and I say it again,

9 (24m 43s):
The blood

0 (24m 44s):
Of the women, children and elderly. I'm not saying that this blood is calling for your help. We are the ones who need this blood. We need this blood. So it awakens within us the revolutionary spirit. So they need more blood. They, they need to awaken their own revolutionary. They need dead kids. They need dead women in order to awaken their own revolutionary spirit and they will achieve it according to the New York Times. This is an amazing piece from the New York Times over the weekend, quote, as Gaza's scrounge for food and water, Hamas sits on a rich trove of supplies, quote as supplies of virtually every basic human necessities, Windle and Gaza. One group in the besieged enclave remains well-stocked. Hamas Arab and Western officials say there is substance to Israeli claims of Hamas stockpiling supplies, including desperately needed food and fuel.

0 (25m 31s):
Hamas has hundreds of thousands of gallons of fuel for vehicles and rockets, cashs of ammunition, explosives, and materials to make more stockpiles of food, water, and medicine. According to officials, a senior Lebanese official said, Hamas, which is estimated to number between 35,000 and 40,000 people, has enough stocked away to keep fighting for three to four months without resupply. The urban Western officials who described Hamas' supply situation spoke on condition of anonymity because they were disclosing information gleaned from human sources. The stockpiles are typically kept underground and cautioned that precise details on Hamas supplies were difficult to come by. While the blockade has left Gaza's, roughly 2 million people scraping by with what little food and water they scrounge up, it doesn't appear to have begun to degrade. Hamas' ability to fight the supply situation speaks to the relative sophistication of Hamas as a fighting force.

0 (26m 16s):
And here's the key sentence from the New York Times. It's just an amazing, incredible sentence quote, yet, with Gaza's facing a humanitarian catastrophe, Hamas' stockpiles raise questions about what responsibility, if any it has to the civilian population. Why would that possibly raise questions? What do you mean? What responsibility do they have to they're the governing party in the Gaza Strip. That's like saying America during wartime. This raises questions about what responsibility America has to its own citizens for their safety. You mean that's literally why the government exists. But when it comes to kamas, it's easy to be a terrorist man. When you're a terrorist, you can rape, murder, kill your own citizens, put them on top of your own bombs, and the rest of the world apparently just goes, well, you know, that raises some questions about your responsibility, but in the end, we're gonna blame the Jews.

0 (26m 58s):
In the end, we're gonna blame the Jews. Kamas has said little of its supply situation, but the government runs in Gaza says it has an emergency fuel stockpile that is quickly being depleted. Those fuel stockpiles are separate from and far smaller than the 211,000 to 264,000 gallons of gas and diesel. The Israeli military says Hamas has on hand. And by the way, everybody understands that Hamas is stealing everything that goes into the Gaza Strip. This notion that Israel sending in aid that that's not gonna be taken by Hamas is a lie. Of course it's gonna be taken by Hamas, and that's what Hamas has been doing for literally decades. Another piece in the last few days from NBC news quote, the unemployment rate in Gaza is 47%.

0 (27m 39s):
More than 80% of its population lives in poverty. Hamas, however, has funded an armed force of thousands equipped with rockets and drones and built a vast web of tunnels under Gaza. Estimates of its annual military budget range from a hundred million dollars to $350 million. As the US House and Senate will be asking in separate hearings Wednesday and Thursday, where does all that cash come from? Hamas has filled its coffers with hundreds of millions in international aid, overt and covert injections of cash from Iran and other ideological partners. Much of the public, much of the money is public and legal, including large financial aid from Qatar via the un. By the way, how much money does Kamas have on hand? Hundreds of millions of dollars.

0 (28m 21s):
Hundreds of millions of dollars. Million, maybe billions. One thing reporting here by NBC news is that Hamas has a wide portfolio, so they, they've really diversified. Hamas' leadership has invested its income in an international investment portfolio worth $500 million in real estate and other assets from companies in Algeria, Saudi Sudan, Turkey, and the UAE, which he uses to conceal and launder its money. According to a treasury announcement. Hamas also supplements its income with various criminal enterprises. For example, Hamas has a presence in the trans-border area of South America, a regional along Brazil, Paraguay in Argentina, known as a haven for terrorists and transnational criminal organizations.

0 (29m 0s):
There Hamas participates in drugs arm and people smuggling. So naturally this is all Israel's fault, right? Israel, the the ceasefire is so that Israel can take care of the humanitarian situation. Now I just have a question. Please name the last war, a war for the survival of the state. Please name the last war in which the chief question was, what happens to the civilians who are under the control of the opposing side? Did you hear this at all? In the aftermath of nine 11? How do we open a humanitarian corridor to Kabul? Did you hear this during the war in Iraq? How do we open a humanitarian corridor into Baghdad? Or was the first order of business you destroy their capacity to make war? If you wish to win a war, that's the only thing that you can do.

0 (29m 41s):
But again, the goal is not here to protect Palestinian civilians in the end, because again, none of these groups have cared about the predations against Palestinian civilians for 20 years. The goal here is to use the Palestinian civilians, the way Hamas wants them used as pressed to stop Israel from deposing Hamas. It's that simple. That's all that's happening. And while that case is taking the form of large scale rallies backed by your favorite left-wing sources, so remember that time when everyone on the left suggested that if you said the name George Soros, this meant you were an Antisemite. It didn't mean you were an Antisemite. George Soros is terrible. He's a terrible person who believes terrible things and funds terrible clauses. According to the New York Post, George Soros has funneled more than $15 million since 2016 to groups behind pro-Palestine protests where demonstrators openly cheer Hamas a New York Post examination of Open Society Foundations records.

0 (30m 30s):
Records shows SO'S grant making network gave $13.7 million through the Tide's Center. A deep pocketed lefty advocacy group sponsoring several nonprofits who have justified Hamas while claiming Palestinians obsessed with the eradication of the Jewish state are the real victims. Tides beneficiaries include Illinois based Adah Justice project, which the day of the October 7th massacre posted a photo on Instagram of a bulldozer tearing down part of Israel's border fence. In a caption quote, Israeli colonizers believed they could indefinitely trap 2 million people in an open air prison. No cage goes unchallenged. And this is George Soros money. George Soros has given money to Jewish voice for peace. And if not now, both radical left-wing organizations that do not represent Jews in any serious way and side with Hamas.

0 (31m 15s):
So criticizing George Soros is not only not antisemitism, it is EMM because he backs every antisemitic cause that apparently he can find. If you're wondering, by the way, how these giant rallies have snapped into place all the way across the nation and beyond the the reason is because there's an entire network of people who are basically professional protestors. And all you have to do is snap that intersectional coalition into place and you make a call and suddenly you got hundreds, if not hundreds of thousands of protesters in the streets. We'll get to the protesters in the United States 'cause it wasn't just in London over the weekend.

Helix (31m 44s):
First, it's hard to get sleep these days, but I rely on my Helix sleep mattress to make it happen. I've had my Helix sleep mattress for, I don't know, 7, 8, 9 years at this point. It is fantastic. Helix is introducing they weren newest, most high-end collection Helix Elite. Helix Elite harnesses years of extensive mattress expertise to offer a truly elevated sleep experience. The Helix Elite Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for specific sleep positions and firmness preferences. Go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben, check out the new collection today. If you're nervous about buying a mattress online, you don't have to be. Helix has a sleep quiz, matches your body type and sleep preferences to the perfect mattress. 'cause why would you buy a mattress made for somebody else? I took that Helix quiz. I was matched with a firm, a breathable mattress. Go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben, take their two minute sleep quiz fine. The perfect mattress for your body and sleep type. Your mattress is gonna come up right to your door, shipped for free. Plus Helix has a 10 warranty. You can try it out for a hundred nitrous free. They'll even even pick it up for you if you don't love it. But you're going to, Helix has over 12,005 star reviews. Helix is offering 20% off all mattress orders plus two free pillows. For my listeners, go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. It's their best offer yet. Go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben with Helix. Better sleep starts right now.

0 (32m 48s):
Also, as you may or may not know, The Daily Wire has just launched your most ambitious initiative ever. That of course is our Bentkey Entertainment platform for kids. Say, as you know, a lot of people out there who wanna indoctrinate your kids into left-wing values, who wish to use the magic of kids TV in order to just pipe bad ideas into your kids' head. Bentkey is doing the opposite. We are creating the next generation of timeless stories, transporting kids into a world of adventure, imagination, and joy. And it is safe, quality content. It's great. My kids love it. They're nine, seven, and three and they ask for the Bentkey app. If you're already a DailyWire Plus member, you already have Bentkey, just download the app, start streaming right now. It's $99 value, you'll get completely free. Go to DailyWire dot com slash subscribe right now. Start streaming the next generation of kids.

0 (33m 28s):
Entertainment. Okay, Meanwhile. Well, if you've ever wondered why these giant protests are able to break out in moments', notice the answer is there's an entire class of professional protestors who are able to whip people into a frenzy and then get them out in fully intersectional fashion, right? The decolonization effort goes worldwide and you can get people with trans Palestinian flags who show up at these rallies because again, they all share a common interest, which is to tear down the institutions of the west Big R in Los Angeles over the weekend. Again, it's here in the United States. Look at the size of this rally in favor of Kamas.

1 (33m 58s):
Peace, fire now, peace, fire now peace, fire now ceasefire

0 (34m 4s):
Now, and I'm chanting ceasefire now on behalf of Hamas, of course, because again, the ceasefire benefits kamas. That's the whole point of Hamas calling for the ceasefire. I didn't see 'em calling for a ceasefire, by the way, when Hamas was firing rockets into Israel. It's only when Israel retaliates that suddenly the ceasefire crowd gets all, gets all happy. Meanwhile over in Brooklyn, massive rally calls to destroy Israel happening on the Brooklyn Bridge. Here's what that looked like. You see here they are on the Brooklyn Bridge, and of course they're, they're chanting things like from the river to sea. Palestine will be free again. That that is a genocidal call for the murder of every Jew. And that is what that means. Union Square in New York City was taken over by these protestors as well.

0 (34m 48s):
They look like a, a great bunch, great bunch of folks.

1 (34m 54s):
That's fine.

0 (34m 59s):
I love this. Hey, hey, ho ho. The occupation has got to go. Gaza was given to the control of class in 2006. In 2005, Israel pulled out and then the Palestinians promptly elected a terror group. And it's just amazing solid stuff there from, from our protesters, Meanwhile pro Kamas protestors stormed the field at AUSC versus Cal football game, which is a great way to annoy Americans. Here they were sitting on the, on the 50 yard line where security, seriously just pick them up and move them. Just pick them up and move them. Why the hell is security just standing there allowing this nonsense, pathetic stupidity. Meanwhile over at Columbia University. Again, these are all of our moral betters. A bunch of professors, we were talking, Katherine Frank, the professor of law, James ldo, professor of law, Rashida Khalidi, who of course you'll recall from being the person who used to give toast for Barack Obama that are then buried by the media.

0 (35m 49s):
And that was supposed to be a big story. In 2008, Rashida Khalidi was very good friends with Barack Obama and he gave a toast to Barack Obama, basically declaring him an ally of the PLO. And that got buried by the media Gray Tuttle loose professor of modern Tibet at Columbia. Jack Halberstein, professor of humanities at Columbia. And dozens of other professors we're talking about probably over a hundred professors and associate professors over at Columbia. They signed a letter, an open letter that blames Israel entirely for the situation. Quote, the most recent devastating violence in Israel and Gaza that began on October 7th, has had a very disturbing reverberation on our campus for all of us students, faculty, staff in the larger Columbia community. Oh, it's devastating violence in Israel and Gaza that began on October 7th. Oh, the violence in Gaza can't began on October 7th. Oh wait, no it didn't.

0 (36m 29s):
The violence in Israel began when Hamas murdered 1500 people in the worst terror attack in a generation. We right now say these professors to express grave concerns about how some of our students are being viciously targeted with doxxing, public shaming surveillance by members of our community, including other students, reprisals from employers. What are they angry about? they weren angry that people are filming some of these students ripping down posters of kidnapped kids. That's why they're mad. They're mad that certain employers might not wanna hire a terrorist supporter. That's why they're upset. They quote Desmond Tutu saying quote, Palestinian humiliation is familiar to all black South Americans. And Jimmy Carter, who of course is a moral moron when it comes to the Middle East and has been forever.

0 (37m 11s):
I mean, this guy was literally meeting with Yassar Arafat in the 1980s, Jimmy Carter, saying that Israel's treatment of the Palestinians is even worse than, than South Africa, which is an absurdity on the highest possible level. The statement concludes the demand that Columbia University reverse the decisions to create curricular and research programs in Israel so that that's what they want. They, they have a series of demands and what they want is to recontextualize the events of October 7th. They want to end all investment in Israel, he said. And then they say, we, we agree that making such claims cannot and should be, should not be considered antisemetic. Yeah, I I wanna hear that from Rashi former, former PR person for the PLO makes perfect sense.

0 (37m 53s):
I I feel like these people are very, very well qualified to speak on antisemitism. All of them like Rebecca Jordan Young and Whitney Oland, professor of women's gender and sexuality studies at Barnard. And that, that seems like a person who, who's, when I think of sources on antisemitism and what is and isn't anti sem, that that's who I think of. I know about you tho those are people I think of. Columbia University continues to be absolutely blind Meanwhile over at Cornell. Violent threats were made sufficient to essentially shut down the kosher dining hall and the center for Jewish living. According to Mediaite Police were on the scene and investigating at Cornell's center for Jewish living after heinous threats to the building and Jewish students were posted online screenshots at social media Sunday of heinous messages posted in a Cornell University discussion forum over the weekend, calling for the murder of Jewish students and making specific threats.

0 (38m 41s):
If I see another Jew on campus, if I see a pig male Jew, I will stab you and slit your throat. If I see another pig, female Jew, I'll drag you and rape you and throw you off a cliff. If I see another pig baby Jew, I'll behead you in front of your parents. If I see another synagogue, another rally for the Zionist globalist genocide apartheid dicial entity known as Israel, I'll bring an assault rifle to campus and shoot all you pig Jews. Jews are human animals and deserve a pig's death. Liberation by any means from the river to the sea, Palestine will be free. So the Hillel sensor had to warn students to stay away for their own safety. Great stuff happening over there at Cornell. Cornell also was met with a bunch of graffiti on the streets, including f Israel free Palestine and Zionism equals genocide and all the rest.

0 (39m 21s):
This comes shortly after one of their professors declared the October 7th terror attack on Israel. Exhilarating and energizing. So solid stuff happening over at Cornell University as well. Again, our our universities, garbage Jeeps, they continue to be garbage heaps. Okay, on the international level, one of the reasons why you're seeing so much international support for Kamas is because there are regimes that see backing Kamas as a way to strike against the Western coalition, particularly the United States. Hamas' leadership, by the way, openly admits this. So Kamas, their leader, guy named Michelle, told the Egyptian TV quote, Russia benefited from our attack because we diverted the American's attention from them and Ukraine, they said they'll teach the October 7th attack in their military academies. The Chinese said it's a model and they'll do the same thing to Taiwan.

0 (40m 3s):
Again, weakness in the face of terrorism breeds contempt from the world's worst, worst people. Meanwhile China is looking to intervene. They have ratcheted up the antisemitism on places like TikTok. China Daily ran an editorial on Monday declaring the United States was quote on the wrong side of history in Gaza. It said Washington was exacerbated in the conflict by blindly backing Israel. And we've seen this movie again is exactly what happened in the 1960s after the six day war. During the six day war, the Soviet Union flipped on Israel between 48 and 67. They were kind of pro-ISIS Israel because they kind of thought maybe Israel is gonna be a socialist estate. It wasn't. And then when a Pan Arab movement rose up to try and destroy the state of Israel, the Soviets sided with the Pan Arab movement in a hope to try and create alliances and oil access for the Soviet Union.

0 (40m 49s):
And they started propagating the myth that Israel was an actual colonial Expan extension as opposed to a decolonization effort by the indigenous Jews. You're seeing the same thing now. Basically for strategic reasons, Russia and China are trying to ally themselves with Iran and with terror groups across the region and with radicalized Muslims worldwide. Hu an influential commentator and former editor-in-Chief of the Global Times, which is the Communist Party newspaper, responded to hawkish statements from an Israeli minister directed at Hezbollah writing. Oh, calm down Israel mor, you'll wipe the earth out of the solar system again. China is not being shy about who they back in this particular conflict. Meanwhile Vladimir Putin is literally hosting Hamas at the Kremlin.

0 (41m 32s):
So he sees an avenue for exacerbating tensions in the region, maybe drawing American resources away from Ukraine and toward what's going on in the Middle East. And so Putin personally met with the leadership of Hamas at the Kremlin Meanwhile over in Turkey. Erdogan ti Erdogan, who is the dictator of Turkey, he's now threatening to declare war on Israel and send the military to Gaza. That is not going to happen, by the way, but he's threatening it. And the reason he is threatening that obviously, is because he would like to be part of this Russian Chinese axis that is forming up in the Middle East. Here's some pictures of a rally in Istanbul. Obviously the government is behind rallies like this one as well in Istanbul.

0 (42m 13s):
Look at the size of this rally. Okay? Look at the, look at the size of that rally that that rally of course is in favor of Hamas. Erdogan is accusing Israel of carrying out war crimes in Gaza, which is amazing, being accused by the Turks of carrying out war crimes. Amazing stuff compared the country's actions to the Nazi genocide against the Jews. Ah, yes, that that old slander. So solid stuff happening. So what should America do? America should back our ally. America should back the moral party in this conflict and America should be quite muscular in doing so. America should push Iran off the ball. America should make clear that when terrorist groups attack American allies, that we are going to back those American allies. The good news is America can do that on the cheap.

0 (42m 55s):
It doesn't cost America all that much money to do that. All Israel wants is to be resupplied and wants its hands uncuffed to take out Kamas. That's it. That's all they want. And here's the thing, I think Americans resonate to that. So best clip of the weekend comes courtesy of some of our friends in New York. This is just the best clip is great. This is, this is America in a nutshell. So what you'll see in this clipper here is a is a Hamas fan tearing down posters of kidnapped kids. This has become a thing all across the country is that fans of Hamas have decided that there really are no hostages or the hostages don't matter, even though they're small babies who are currently being held in captivity, who will almost certainly be murdered by Hamas in this conflict. So they've been tearing down posters of kidnap children and a New Yorker, like full scale, old style New Yorker takes offense and it's pretty great.

10 (43m 41s):
Why do you rip it off? Why do you rip it off? Why do you rip it off? Put it back. Why do you rip it off? Put it back. What? Show me what

0 (43m 50s):
You're holding. Here's this guy he ripped, he's ripping down posters. Yeah, keep it off from the, but what are you doing? And people have been filming this sort of stuff.

10 (43m 56s):
You have any idea

0 (43m 57s):
With this is a man with a beard? No mustache. That's alright.

10 (44m 0s):
I'm a veteran, I'm telling you. All right, don't do it. I'm not Jewish. He's not Jewish. I don't know if he is or not. Doesn't matter. This is us s New York City. You don't have a right to touch this. This is a free country. You can wave your Palestine flag and say death to Jews or America whenever you want. But we can put a, okay, we then don't rip that down. You are doing something. You're offending us mother in the city. Yeah, you are. When you throw that on the floor, you're lit in the city. Didn't in a minute I'm gonna litter on the floor with you. You have the so move the, you have proof they're not kidnapped. No. So shut the up.

0 (44m 38s):
Well, that guy has a free shabbas dinner on me anytime he wants it. I think most Americans think like that by, by the way, better expression of free speech than everyone on college campus. You have a right to say whatever you want, but if you start ripping down those posters, you start doing that a litter to the floor with you. Like that's, that's pretty, that's pretty classic New York. And not only is it classic New York, that used to be what America's made, I think that's still what America is made of. If it weren't for the decolonization coalition out there, that stands for Hamas by the way. You can see how fast this guy backs down the minute that he's confronted by somebody who actually muscularly is saying no. Okay. That's a pretty good microcosm of how international politics actually works. People are very, very easy about violating Western morality because they think that the Westerners are gonna do nothing but stand by and tape them.

0 (45m 19s):
And the minute they're confronted, all of a sudden they get real shy. And that's exactly what happens in that clip. Okay, in just one second, we'll get to some breaking news in the presidential race.

Bone Charge (45m 28s):
First, Bone Charge. It's a holistic wellness brand with a huge range of evidence-based products to optimize your life in every way. The products help you sleep better, perform better, recover fast, reduce inflammation, and so much more. From blue light glasses to red light therapy, Bone Charge products help you naturally address the issues of our modern day way of life effortlessly and with maximum impact. If you haven't already checked out the infrared Sauna Blanket from BON CHARGE, you need to right now. I've been using it. It's great. Basically it's like a Sauna in a Blanket. It works by using infrared light, which heats the body directly rather than the air around you. Like a traditional Sauna, which means you get the same benefits at a lower heat. The sweating is good for you, it raises your heart rate to that. A physical exercise can burn calories while you relax. Plus you're not sitting, you know, sweaty with like other people in a Sauna. You're just under a Blanket BON. CHARGE Ships worldwide offers exceptional customer service and commes the 12 month warranty. Go to BON CHARGE dot com slash Ben. Use code Ben save at 15%. That's BON CHA rge.com/ Ben. Use code bend to save 15% off today. That's bond charge.com/ Ben. Start getting healthier with bond charge products. Bond charge.com/ Ben. Use code Ben save at 15% off

0 (46m 32s):
Meanwhile on the presidential side of the aisle. The Republican party continues to have a a pretty not contested primary. I mean if you look at the polling data right now, this is not a particularly close election in the national polling averages. I know it's been a while, but in the national polling averages, Donald Trump is currently up 59 to 13 over Ron DeSantis. Nicki Haley at 8%. Vivek Ramez Swami at 4.5% in Iowa. Trump running a similarly large lead. The latest Iowa State civics poll has Trump up 55 to 17 over DeSantis. Haley at 11. Ramis. Swami at five, Scott at four. Well, the field needs to consolidate because the reality is that Trump has such a large lead right now that, and unless there is some sort of consolidation, he's just gonna walk through the field pretty obviously, whatever else, his foibles.

0 (47m 15s):
And given the fact that the world right now is on fire and that the world was not on fire when Donald Trump was president, his case to be president of the United States again is pretty easy. Which is shut the hell up and point at the guy who's the president again. That's a pretty case for make. That's seriously all he has to do, even if he's bogged down now. And I was, listen, I was doubtful that a guy bogged down for with, with four separate trials over the course of an election cycle, was going to have an amazing shot at victory. But I may have underestimated just how bad a President Joe Biden is. So Joe Biden is really, really bad at this, and it turns out that he's basically set everything on fire. And so if Donald Trump just walks back into the room like Donald Glover from that outtake, from from community, that meme from community walks into everybody's on fire, then he might become president again.

0 (48m 1s):
Well, one of the ways the field is consolidating is that Mike Pence has just dropped out. So Mike Pence is really not running a campaign for president. He's really running a campaign to justify what he did on January 6th, which is to stand up for the Constitution. And Mike Pence did the right thing on January 6th. He did not have the right or the obligation under the Constitution of the United States to reject state certified electoral votes. That was not something that is called for by the Constitution of the United States. He was speaking at the annual Republican Jewish Convention in Las Vegas and he announced that this was not his time. He said he was gonna suspend his campaign for president effective today. And then he, he gave a bit of a speech talking about what he hopes the future of the Republican Party is.

0 (48m 41s):
And here is Pence.

11 (48m 44s):
Will Republicans continue to be the party of the traditional conservatives that has defined our movement over the past 40 years? Or will our party follow the siren song of populism unmoored to conservative principles As war rages in Eastern Europe and Israel, and China continues its provocations in the Asia Pacific. A new populous movement in the Republican Party says that America should retreat from her leadership position, turn inward, and focus solely on domestic concerns.

11 (49m 31s):
I don't have to tell people gathered here that there are powerful voices within and outside our party that say we have to choose between supporting our allies and solving problems here at home. Let me say from my heart, anyone who says that America cannot solve our problems at home and be the leader of the free world has a pretty small view of the greatest nation on earth.

0 (49m 59s):
So that was Pence's case. And the reality is that Pence's case has now been taken up by pretty much the entire field. There's, there's a bit of exaggeration that's now going on inside the Republican field. So there's people who are saying, oh, there's a lot of isolationists inside. Donald Trump was not an isolationist president. Donald Trump did not get us into, into any new wars because he was muscular on foreign policy because if you messed with him, you didn't know if he was gonna fire a missile at you. You screw with him enough and he kills Qem, Soleimani Meanwhile. He's out there cutting deal with the Saudis that is not a non-interventionist foreign policy. That is a muscular piece through strength foreign policy that is in fact very reminiscent of Ronald Reagan's foreign policy for all to talk about Donald Trump being wildly conciliatory toward Russia, his policies on Russia were significantly harsher than Barack Obama's were.

0 (50m 41s):
Barack Obama literally cut a deal with Vladimir, with Dimitri Medvedev, literally on camera in the run up to the 2012 election. So, you know, there, there's a feeling inside the Republican party that's largely driven by the media and by social media that there are these huge gaps in terms of foreign policy. I, I don't think that's actually true. And with that said, you know, listen, I, I think the Pence is a good man. I like Mike Pence. I know Mike Pence and I think that his service to the country was well worthwhile and excellent as vice president. And, and yes, I think of course he did the right thing in January of 2021 by not delaying the certification of the election illegally. Alright, guys, the rest of the show is about to continue right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll get into the mail back and answer some of your questions.

0 (51m 21s):
If you're not a member, become member, use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months. Free online on plans, click the link in the description and join us.