ExpressVPN (0s):
This show is sponsored by ExpressVPN. It's time to stand up against Big Tech protector data at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben

0 (6s):
Just. a quick reminder, the best deal of the year is now here, 50% off your new Daily Wire plus annual memberships. Go to Daily Wire dot com slash subscribe right now to join. Last night the Israeli War cabinet approved a Hostage deal with the terrorist group Hamas. According to the Israeli government, the deal we'll see 50 Israeli citizens released mostly women and children in batches of 12 or 13 per day. The Prime minister's office has released a full list and that list shows many, many young people, but their parents still in captivity or dads still in captivity, and Mom released, families destroyed, families split, and all the rest. For each day of such releases, Israel will pause its current offensive against Hamas in the Gaza. Strip Israel said it would pause its air operations for six hours daily in the northern part of the Gaza Strip.

0 (49s):
That provision was apparently sought directly by Yaya Swar, the head of Hamas, who wants Israeli UAVs down for that time period to limit Israeli surveillance, presumably to save his own skin as he tries to escape whatever rat hole he's currently trapped in. For its part, Israel insists it will still have surveillance capacity without the UAVs. Hamas will also supposedly allow the international Red Cross access to the hostages. Despite the IRCs publicly obvious disinterest in such a mission, Israel will also release some 150 Palestinian terrorists or women and minors. In other words, a democratic government is trading terrorists for innocent women and children being held by a terrorist group. Israel will also allow additional fuel into Gaza, presumably to be stolen by Hamas. The deal is supported by the Israeli defense Forces, the HIN bet and Mossad that support led many of the members of the war cabinet to flip from opposing the deal to supporting it.

0 (1m 38s):
According to the times of Israel, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu further insisted on the potential release of more hostages, a refusal to release terrorists convicted of murder and a commitment by Hamas to locate the other hostages held by other terror groups in the Gaza Strip. That last point is really important. There are multiple distinct groups in the Gaza Strip reportedly holding Israelis Hostage, and some of those groups are actually Gaza civilians who participated in the massacre of October 7th. According to the times of Israel, quoting an unnamed government official quote, Israel believes Kamas could potentially locate some 30 more Israeli mothers and children beyond the initial 50, and that the Hal and fighting could be extended by a day. For each group of 10 more Israeli hostages who are located and freed, the Israeli government released a statement adding quote, the Israeli government, the IDF and security Forces will continue the war to return all the abductees, complete the elimination of Hamas and ensure that Gaza does not renew any threats to the state of Israel.

0 (2m 31s):
Here is Prime Minister Netanyahu explaining that after this pause, the war to eviscerate Hamas will continue. He says outside there's a lot of nonsense talk as if after we cease fire for the release of the hostages, we'll stop the war.

1 (2m 49s):
As

0 (2m 52s):
So I would like to clarify we are at war and we'll continue to fight until we reach all

1 (2m 58s):
Our goals.

0 (3m 4s):
He says in more there are stages and also in the returning of hostages, there are stages. We'll not let go until we reach the absolute victory and until we bring them all back. This deal is in fact highly controversial. Inside of Israel, there are two separate strains of logic being applied. On the one side, there are those who believe that as the cordon tightens rounds kamas, they'll start killing hostages. That Israel must do what it can right now to free as many hostages as possible. Before that happens, they believe that Israel will be able to continue to successfully pursue its long-term goal of eradicating Hamas. Even if that goal is made more difficult by Hamas' activities during the pause in fighting, there is some evidence to support this idea.

0 (3m 45s):
Yesterday, for example, Palestinian Islamic Jihad released news of the death of one of the hostages, which they then promptly blamed on Israel procrastinating, which is weird because the hostages wouldn't even be in Gaza if terrorist groups had not taken them there. Bring the hostages home as fast as possible at the lowest possible cost and then destroy Hamas. That is the logic of those who support the deal. On the other side, there are those who worry that Hostage deals have always been terrible policy. Then remember the 2011 Gila Shalit deal in which Israel obtained the release of one kidnapped Israeli soldier from Kamas. In return for, and I'm not reading the statistic wrong, 1027 prisoners including 280 serving life sentences for planning and perpetrating terrorism.

0 (4m 26s):
Those prisoners were at the time responsible for nearly 600 Israeli deaths. In fact, one of the prisoners who was in fact released in that deal was Yaya Sinis, the current leader of Kamas who planned October 7th opponents of the deal. Remember when the authorities told them security and Gaza was good enough to withstand the risk, those authorities were obviously wrong opponents of the deal worry most of all that the current pause will be used as an excuse by the global community to pressure Israel for further quote unquote deescalation with a terrorist group that just slaughtered 1200 Israelis and kidnapped another 240 and pledged to do the same and pledged Israel's destruction. They worry that as the focus shifts from Hamas' Evil to Hostage deals, there will be a broader effort to leave Hamas in place.

0 (5m 9s):
Such worries are well-founded for its part. Hamas is already claiming to have achieved such an end. Last night, Ismail Haniya, the political head of Hamas living at five star hotels in Qatar, released a statement saying a truce was going to happen. The term for truce that Hanah used is the same as the term for ceasefire. Hanah hopes this will serve as a propaganda victory telling the radical Muslim moral that Hamas has somehow fought Israel to a standstill. Many in the media are doing the same already. The media are using the pause set to go into effect on Thursday as an excuse to talk about leaving Hamas in place. Politico today has an article from one Colin Clark of the Soufan Group and Michael Kenny of the University of Pittsburgh stating that Kamas is actually a kind of nice terrorist group that they're not isis.

0 (5m 52s):
They have merely territorial goals they can be negotiated with. According to Clark and Kenny quote, unlike isis, some of Hamas' goals are actually political, and so there will be no effective solutions to the crisis unless it also includes a political resolution. That is an absurd contention. Given the events of October 7th and Hamas' stated goal of repeating as many October 7th as possible and their stated goal of completely destroying the state of Israel, but Hamas is playing the game. Hamas released a statement that at the very end suggested that what they're really looking for is an independent Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital. Nevermind that what they mean by that is the complete destruction of the state of Israel. They're not looking for a two state solution, but that contention that Hamas can be left in place is being issued by a wide variety of sources.

0 (6m 35s):
As the pause begins, David Ignatius of the Washington Post hopes that the Hostage deal will provide a quote, surprisingly pragmatic formula for easing the conflict expanding into a deescalation of the nightmare. Presumably, some of the Biden administration hope the same that the Israelis will simply forget about what Kamas wants, what Kamas has done, what Hamas pledges to do, even before the bodies of October 7th have all been buried. The White House is obviously conflicted. Certain members are standing stalwartly by Israel. Others are fretting over the possibility of Iranian aggression. In reality, if Israel leaves Hamas in place, the possibility of regional conflict grows exponentially. It is only the impression of Israeli strength that has prevented a wider regional conflict thus far.

0 (7m 17s):
Hamas would re-arm and declare victory. Hezbollah would be emboldened in Israel's north terrorist groups in the West Bank would grow more violent. The Houthis in Yemen would up the ante. The Sunni countries would shy away from Israel and seek their own methods of defense against the Shia incursion creating more opportunities for nuclear proliferation. Iran would grow more aggressive until they have fully developed a nuclear weapon, at which point pretty much all hell would break loose. Israel must reestablish deterrence and security. That is in fact the primary goal. Hostages are a coincidence goal, but they are not in fact the chief goal. If Israel does not reestablish deterrence in security, Israel will find itself under violent attack from its enemies every single day.

0 (7m 58s):
The simple fact of the matter is there is no ceasefire on the table with people who participated in October 7th and celebrated it. Here, for example, is some taper made GA and civilian who participated in the October 7th attacks bragging about it publicly. What he's saying here, by the way, he's describing members of a family he slaughtered to his family. He's saying that one of them begged for his life and was slaughtered. One was slaughtered in the bedroom, the third in the bathroom, the excitement. Unfortunately, a huge overwhelming percentage of Palestinian Arabs are in favor of this sort of activity By polling data, 75% of Palestinian Arabs supported October 7th, 98%.

0 (8m 43s):
By the way, hate America. This means that Israel simply cannot allow pseudo-government bodies with control over money and weaponry, staffed and governed by such people. Israel must secure its own security. They don't have a choice. Everyone in Israel on all sides of the Hostage issue agrees on that much so don't believe the media when they suggest that this Hostage deal is suddenly the prelude to a broader sort of ceasefire. It is not. Israel is making that clear and The world should remember it in just one second. We'll get to the latest updates on the ground over that.

ExpressVPN (9m 12s):
First, I wanna talk to you about daily Wire's Most trusted privacy partner and premier sponsor of this show Express VPN. You probably heard by now you should be using AVPN when you connect it to the internet, but If, you're like me adding an extra step to anything you do every day. Well, it sounds like a pain in the butt, but If, you knew how easy it is to protect your connection with Express VPN. You would be doing it already 'cause it really is simple. Express VPN is the easiest way to browse safely and securely. ExpressVPN gets rid of all those things you hate about VPNs. It's VPNs done right. First of all, it is blazing fast. A lot of other VPNs slow your connection to the point where it's not even worth it to connect, but ExpressVPN doesn't lag or buffer. You can stream it in HD with no issues. Using ExpressVPN could not be easier just to open the app. Click one button and enjoy instant protection across all your devices. Once you connect to express VPN, you don't even realize you have it on, but your connection is secure. The data is encrypted. No wonder it's been called the best VPN by Business Insider and TechRadar right now. Head on over to ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben. you can get an extra three months of ExpressVPN for free. That's ExpressVPN dot com slash BEN to get three extra months of ExpressVPN ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (10m 14s):
It truly is astonishing how The world community is so eager to save Hamas. There's so many members of The world community who are eager to save Hamas believing that when you appease terrorist groups somehow magically this makes The world safer when precisely the opposite is true. Israel knows Israel tried to deescalate with Hamas for 20 years, for 20 years, and the result was October 7th. Hamas has not changed. Hamas is lying to The world when they suggest that there is anything on the table other than Hamas continuing its mission of destroying Israel. This is made clear every single day is Israel releases new footage from the Gaza Strip. So for example, yesterday the IDF released footage showing how Hamas uses masks to protect weapons, and this is the thing when you're talking about negotiations and diplomacy.

0 (10m 59s):
Negotiations and diplomacy obviously have to occur in a situation in which you can trust and also verify, right? That was the old Reagan saw is that in any negotiation, especially with somebody who really opposes you, you have to trust, but you have to verify, okay, well trust is not possible with people whose entire mode of existence on this earth, namely Kamas terrorists and their ilk is lying is untruth. These are people who deliberately hide weapons beneath mosques in order so that when Israel has to hit the mosque, they can then claim that Israel is attacking holy sites. These are people who deliberately hide weapons in hospitals so that when Israel has to attack a hospital, they can hide inside and pretend that Israel is attacking a civilian site.

0 (11m 42s):
This is lying is part of the game and this is the thing that Westerners need to understand. Hamas, Hezbollah, Iranian regime, Houthis, Yemen, radical Islamic opponents of the West. Dishonesty is an entire tactic. It is not as though honesty is just facts on both sides. It's a disagreement over politics or anything remotely like that. It is not one side is perfectly willing to lie as much as humanly possible in order to achieve its ends and the other side keeps screaming into the void. Negotiations cannot be pursued successfully under such situ, under, under such conditions. This, by the way, is what Israel found out under the Oslo Accords when they trusted the Palestinian authority and the Palestinian authority promptly started multiple rounds of violence when the Palestinian authority used every dollar that came into the Palestinian authority, not to build up civil society, but to siphon it off into the pockets of the Palestinian leadership, to build up weaponry, to pay terrorists.

0 (12m 40s):
Dishonesty is the name of the game in this particular region. The only thing that both sides understand because Israel understands the honesty and its opponents do not. They don't even play in that, in that kitty pool. The only thing, the only currency in the Middle East, unfortunately I wish it were not so the only currency is actual deterrence power. That is the only currency that actually exists. I'll show you some of this footage in just a second because again, it continues to be stunning and astonishing to me that people in the West seem to believe that Hamas is just, you know, they're just another political group that David Ignatius is of The world. Pure idiocy diplomacy is a tactic. Diplomacy is not a policy. This is something that the west also seems to have forgotten.

0 (13m 22s):
The west seems to have forgotten that when you make policy, you have a policy goal and then you have certain tactics in order to achieve the policy goal. If you wish, for example, for a two-state solution, that is a policy goal. Now, the only way to achieve that policy goal may be to replace a regime like Kamas in the Gaza Strip and hope that at some point in the future another regime arises that is not a genocidal terrorist group, but there's so many people in the West who believe that diplomacy is like an actual policy, and so when asked in presidential debate, you'll see candidates say things like, well, I would pursue diplomacy. Diplomacy is the answer. Well, that's not the question. The question is what is the policy that you are seeking to pursue and is diplomacy the best available opportunity to achieve that policy?

0 (14m 3s):
This, by the way, is one of the arguments that's happening over this Hostage deal. There are a lot of people who believe that Israel should not have been negotiating with Kamas at all. That essentially Israel should have said from the very outset, you have two choices and two choices, only one, you return the hostages, you surrender, you give up your weapons and you go into exile somewhere and two you die. Those are the only two options, but the reality is that when you're in the Prime minister's seat in Israel, or by the way, when you're in the president of the United States States's seat in the United States, all the talk about not negotiating with terror seems to go by the wayside because immediate interest in obtaining the release of innocent people tends to trump all of the tough talk. I think that's unfortunate.

0 (14m 43s):
By the way. Again, we'll get to some of the tapes showing what Hamas actually is in just one second.

Beam (14m 48s):
First, the holidays are here. The last thing you need during this busy time of yours to miss out on a great night's sleep. That is why my team uses Beam's Dream Powder Beam's Dream Powder contains a powerful all natural blend of ingredients including magnesium, l-theanine. It's not just a run of the mill sleep aid, it's concoction carefully crafted to help you slip into the sweet embrace of rest without the grogginess that often accompanies other sleep remedies. Sleep is the foundation of our mental and physical health. You have to have a consistent nighttime routine to function at your best. Today my listeners get a special discount on Beam's Dream powder. That's their bestselling hot cocoa for sleep with no added sugar. Now available in delicious flavors like cinnamon, cocoa, chocolate, peanut butter, and mint chip. Better sleep has never tasted better, just mixed Beam dream into hot water or milk, sir or froth, enjoy before bedtime. If, you find yourself battling the bedtime blues. Give it a shot. Your weary self will. Thank you. Try Beams bestselling dream powder, take advantage of their biggest sale of the year. Get up to 50% off for a limited time when you go to shop Beam dot com slash Ben. That discount is auto apply to checkout no code necessary. Shop BEA m.com/ Ben for up to 50% off.

0 (15m 47s):
Okay, so again, just a reminder that there will be no ceasefire in the long term or even in the medium term with Hamas because Israel has to finish the job over there. Why? Well, because these are the kinds of people, as we say, who hide weapons in mosque. Here are some of that footage

4 (16m 3s):
Is God.

0 (16m 4s):
Here's an idea of spokesperson saying we're currently going into the mosque. you can see it here. We'll now go down to the basement. The Kamas Rocket Manufacturing lab kept in the basement of a mosque. I dunno what you do at your church group. I doubt it's manufacturing rockets. Notice how Hamas built entire walls to hide the lab.

4 (16m 37s):
We

0 (16m 37s):
Had to destroy them in order to expose the lab. There's a tunnel entrance here. you can see the entrance to the operational tunnel. It goes down so the terrace can hide in it. Don't worry, the morons on Twitter will say it's an elevator shaft. We'll head to the lab says the IDF. You can see sketches of the rockets on the whiteboard, so don't worry, these are just good people you can do diplomacy with or even terrible people you can do diplomacy with.

0 (17m 22s):
They're not deceitful. They would never lie. It's not as though that is a core part of their policy. Meanwhile, Israel has released yet more tape of kamas using SFA to build a tunnel network. Again, it is amazing how many Credulous members of the press were willing to humor the lie that everyone knew was a lie that Alfa was a civilian site predominantly as opposed to Hamas headquarters. Even after Israel released horrifying footage of Hamas, literally dragging hostages into the hospital, as doctors sat around and watched, everyone knew to understand how disgusting the international community is. What you really have to understand is how many international organizations knew exactly what SFA was and continued to Propagandize on behalf of Hamas.

0 (18m 3s):
It is astonishing. We're talking the International Red Cross. They knew we're talking about Doctors without Borders. They knew human rights watch. They knew and all of them were propagandizing on behalf of Hamas during this particular conflict, and Israel breached a wall and what they found behind it shocker, a giant well-stocked terror tunnel under all Shifa Hospital. It goes even further when Hamas is looking for a great place to hide its weaponry. It does so in things like baby cribs. Here's a picture from yesterday. Kamas hid an anti-tank weapon underneath a baby crib. Now I have a baby. I'll tell you what, I don't keep under his crib a missile. I don't know about you, but maybe that's because I'm not a piece of human debris like the members of Kamas nonetheless, and the the typical sort of good-hearted American notion that everyone thinks the same way and everyone has the same general mode of thought and we're all seeking the same thing on earth, we're all brotherhood, all this stuff.

0 (18m 59s):
It's crap. It is not true. The world is filled with real politic, a struggle between people very often believe horrible things and people who do not believe horrible things. This is why, for example, South Africa has now shifted dramatically on Israel. They're now accusing South Africa is Israel of a quote unquote genocide. That of course is not a shock. South Africa has been rife with anti-white hatred for years and years since the end of apartheid. Certainly justifiably in some measure during apartheid in the Posta apartheid era, the promise of Mandela has been almost completely forgotten in South Africa as there has been a move to tremendously racialize the politics again in South Africa and Israel has been seen as an extension of that.

0 (19m 42s):
According to the times of Israel, one of Israel's most significant partners on the continent one time South Africa has gradually come out as one of its most vituperative critics accusing Israel of ethnic cleansing and now of genocide. The genocide allegation has traveled up the ranks of the government beginning on November 2nd with Buzo Heni, a relatively junior cabinet Minister, and then was expressed by the president Cyril Za, who called the Gaza a quote concentration camp where genocide is taking place, which is just the est most disgusting language, especially about again, the Jews who actually suffered in a concentration camp where genocide was taking place, many concentration camps, sorry, genocide was taking place, which is not Gaza.

0 (20m 22s):
South Africa is gonna move in very dangerous directions against its Jewish population. That's just a prediction right now, and this is true of a huge number of countries ranging from Africa, I would say to the Middle East, but there are no Jews in the Middle East other than Israel because they've all been expelled already, which no one seems to care about, but from Africa to Europe, this is going to be a continuing problem. Meanwhile, turkeys seeking to up the ante because again, Turkey can do so at low cost and then make promises to its Islamist population first.

Good Ranchers (20m 46s):
There's a lot at stake this November, so don't be a chicken and shop at the grocery store like usual. Instead, head on over to Good Ranchers or they have great meat puns, but even better meat. Do not miss their Black Friday your Way sale. It is now live this November. Get your favorite meat free for a year. That is correct. One year of free steak, salmon, chicken, or bacon when you subscribe to any box right now. Better yet, when you subscribe to any on good Ranchers dot com, you not only get a free gift of meat worth up to 480 bucks, you also get 15 bucks off with Code Shapiro. The only deal your grocery store offers is on expiring foods, so ditch the meat aisle and subscribe at good Ranchers dot com. Today they actually ship me a very special shipment of kosher salmon and it is in fact excellent. I mean they may be a kosher steak at one point. That was great. I'm just telling you their stuff is high quality claim your year of free meat, 15 bucks off free shipping with my coach Shapiro at good Ranchers dot com. Good Ranchers is the number one place to get all American beef, pork, chicken, and seafood. That is promo coach Shapiro at good Ranchers dot com. Good Ranchers. Is American Meat delivered? Go check them out right now. Good Ranchers dot com free shipping with Code Shapiro.

0 (21m 49s):
Okay, so Turkey is also seeking to up the ante because Erdogan is an Islamist dictator according to the times of Israel, approximately 1000 votes we'll gather in Turkey on Wednesday before heading toward Gaza in an attempt to break the Israeli blockade and disrupt maritime trade coming into Israel during the war with Hamas. Now, a decade ago they tried the same thing. They tried to ship in a bunch of weaponry. Israel had to board one of those ships and there were terrorists on board that Israel had to kill and that ended up being an international incident because this is the way that it works. Among the 1000 vessels would be 313 boats filled with Russian activists and 104 with Spanish activists. Only 12 Turkish vessels would join the Flotilla.

0 (22m 30s):
Apparently later they expected the number of Turkish vessels to increase to 1000. They then suggested that the initiative was not associated with the Turkish government, which of course is a lie. The operation would be designed to cause disruption in international waters off the Israeli coast to the maritime trade heading for the Port of Aashto in order to interrupt the supply of goods to Israel for a week or even up to 10 days, so it wouldn't even be to try to ship stuff into the Gaza Strip, which is not going to work. Instead, it would be to obstruct other boats from getting into Israel to bring goods into Israel. Just the The world is filled with delightful people and delightful countries and it is worthy remembering that the United States does not exist in a vacuum. We are very lucky, as I've said before, the United States is blessed by God in so many unique and incredible ways.

0 (23m 11s):
Number one, our geography. We are contiguous continental power to our north are a bunch of Canadians and to our south are a bunch of Mexicans. On the other two sides is a bunch of water that is really, really lucky, but that does not mean that The world is not a fairly small place and that the more horrifying countries gain more power. The more horrifying countries feel emboldened, the more that affects your life here at home. I'm not just talking about in terms of security. Sure, it means that there will be an uptick in terror attacks because again, when terror groups feel that they have a weak horse, they attack, I mean Osama Bin Laden said that much. I'm talking about in terms of your economic livelihood. There are choke points all over the globe. Most of trade does not happen via airplane.

0 (23m 52s):
Most of trade happens via oceans. Most of it happens via waterways. There are there, there are dozens of choke points all over The world and as the United States' power wanes in those particular areas, that's going to get a lot worse. If the United States and its allies, for example, cannot guarantee the freedom of the waterways, which has been sort of the guarantee the United States has, has assumed since the end of World War ii, I promise you the price of goods services, everything is going to increase dramatically. If you're worried about inflation. Now get ready. If you're worried about price spikes now get ready. What happens when, for example, China decides that it's going to take more control over the South China Sea and then impose tariffs on anybody moving through? What happens when the Straits of Horus are shut off by Iran?

0 (24m 32s):
This is the sort of thing that happens in a multipolar world. We have all been living in the aftermath and in the current of a dominant American hegemony and that is a very, very good thing. America and its allies rule the globe. That is good because in that absence the opposite is really bad. We can pretend that none of this matters, but it matters an awful lot. If, for example, the Strait of Malacca, which is the primary choke point for traded goods in Asia, if if, if that for example is grabbed by China or controlled by China, that is a serious problem. Not only because it gives China an enormous amount of leverage over the United States, but also because it means the prices are going to go up if the Straits of Horus are closed.

0 (25m 15s):
I mentioned that earlier. That's 30% of all oil traded on the world's oceans, which is the majority of oil traded. 30% of it can get choked off. You think that has no impact on you and isolationism is first order thinking? It's first order? Think just on a real politic level. Forget all of the moral persuasion arguments. Forget about democracy versus dictatorship for a second. Forget about human rights versus some of the most Evil groups on the planet. Forget about all that stuff. I understand that's the stuff that emotionally moves people, but there's a whole group of people out there who are isolationists because they're quote unquote real politic who are thinking about, you know, the the hard power aspects of what it means to exist in The world and they're forgetting that those hard power aspects don't just exist inside the United States of America.

0 (25m 55s):
America again is uniquely blessed by geography. That does not mean that America is archic, it is not. We get a vast number of resources from abroad, and by the way, those markets purchase a vast number of American resources. It will have an impact on our life if we go isolationist, it will have an impact on our life if the bad guys win in many of these places, if Russia gains power, that army will be used to mobilize toward choke points. If China stretches its power across the straits of Taiwan and grabs Taiwan, that has massive ramifications for American technology. Virtually all the sophisticated microchips on earth are produced in Taiwan. This is why we care about Taiwan. Again, forget about the fact that Taiwan is a democratic state that shares many of our values and China is a communist hellhole that shares virtually none of them.

0 (26m 42s):
The real question for the real crowd because that is what they say they are. They say they're hardheaded or so hardheaded. I mean, I noticed that the hardheadedness, the hardheaded isolationism doesn't extend to when people are traveling to Spain or when they're traveling to Hungary to talk with various foreign leaders. Then the hardheaded real politics seems to go away and it's moral persuasion again, but even assuming hardheaded real politic Pap Buchanan esque isolationism. Alright, well let's pretend for a second that you got your way. There would be real massive costs associated with that to the American taxpayer, to the American consumer, to American families and lest we forget, the American economy matters an awful lot to the American family and to American consumers. That is your way of life. That is how you live day to day.

0 (27m 23s):
Everything seems very distant until the impacts are felt very, very immediately and that's the problem with foreign policy. It's hard to explain foreign policy generally speaking in real politic terms because it requires a certain baseline level of understanding and knowledge, which is why typically there has been a semi bipartisan consensus on foreign policy. Why? Because once you get in the seat and you see how certain decisions that are made in places very far away from the United States manifest as real impacts inside the United States, it seems that that clarifies the mind a lot and that's true for members of both parties largely. I mean, Donald Trump came into office pledging a certain level of isolationism and he was able to carry that out to the extent that we didn't involve ourselves heavily in foreign conflicts, but to pretend that Donald Trump was an isolationist on foreign policies, absurd, he personally helped broker the Abraham Accords in the Middle East.

0 (28m 11s):
That wasn't just a good thing to do. That also was very helpful for the American economic interest in the Middle East. President Trump engaged in diplomacy in Southeast Asia, it was a thing that he did. It is a thing the United States will have to do because again, second order thinking requires that you not just look at the problem that is immediately in front of you and say that's very far away. It's happening in a different place. Foreign policy requires you think two steps down the road because America's enemies are, and that's particularly true for dictatorships when it comes to foreign policy. Dictatorships have a first mover advantage. They do. Democracies are generally very slow to mobilize and they tend to get bored very easily. Dictatorships don't have to worry about that. This has always been the case that China has made with regard to foreign policy. For example, China has always said, we'll just outlast you, we'll outwait, you we'll outlast you.

0 (28m 55s):
We'll still be here, you'll just elect another president four years from now and then that guy will do some stuff and if we don't like that, we'll wait another four years and that guy will go away. Having a long lasting hardheaded foreign policy is a very difficult thing to do in a democracy and dictatorships know that. That is why the American people and people of the west generally speaking have to be a little bit more long sighted in the way that they view foreign policy because again, dictatorships have the ability to simply hold the line for literally ever, and if their people don't like it, they just kill them. That's not the case in the west, which requires more of the people of the west. It requires people in the west to actually think about the impacts of the things that they are saying and doing. 'cause those things actually have an impact on how their leaders act.

0 (29m 36s):
Okay, which brings us to the latest in Ukraine. Now, the issue in Ukraine is, is really not whether Russia is going to win there. Now Russia is not going to defeat Ukraine. The issue is what does an off ramp look like? The issue is can Ukraine maintain its own security inside the borders that it currently has because it was in America's interest to continue to bleed the Russian army. There's no question about this, this notion that it's in, it's in America's interest not to believe the Russian army is bizarre to me. Russia's military has been quite aggressive from Georgia to Crimea, to the Donbas, to Kazakhstan. The the, the Russian military used as an arm of imperialism by the Russian state has been adverse to American interests across The world, including in the Middle East, where they've been very active in places like Syria because Barack Obama basically surrendered Syria to Russia, which was a bad move and has heightened the possibility of conflict in the Middle East.

0 (30m 27s):
Again, second order of thinking when you hand over Syria to the Russians, it turns out that the Russians are coordinating with the Iranians that has impact on Ukraine because Iran is using, because Iran is working with the Russians to ship technology over. It has impact on the Middle East because Russia is helping Iran with its resource problems so it can distribute terror all over the Middle East and that has impact on The world economy as we've seen from the shocking extent of the economic impact on The world economy of the war in Ukraine and there are a lot of interconnections in foreign policy. So what was America's interest in Ukraine? America's interest in Ukraine was number one, preserving the independence of Ukraine against Russia. Number two, degrading the Russian military and America has largely achieved both of those goals and then it was in America's interest to continue to support Ukrainian action in the field until the point at which it was clear that a stalemate had been obtained.

0 (31m 13s):
That is basically what has happened here. I'd be perfectly happy to continue funding the Ukrainians if they were actually capable of pushing the Russians out of Don Basar Crimea. They've shown no ability to do that. Then the question becomes, are we just throwing bad money after good beyond a certain point? That's the real question we should be asking. Ukraine Ukraine. That by the way, is a very different story from, for example, foreign aid to Israel in defeating Hamas, which is a very, very achievable goal. Hamas is a fairly small, moderately sized terrorist group compared to the Israeli military. The Israeli military certainly has the capacity to regain control of the security situation in the Gaza Strip, which is why I'll talk of a cease fire now from a military real politic perspective is the stupidest thing I've ever heard.

0 (31m 55s):
Talk of some sort of solution in Ukraine, right? Now, it makes sense since we've been doing this for a year and a half. The lines on the battlefield had basically been stagnant for at least six months and we all knew where they were gonna end up anyway, and with that said, the Pentagon Chief Secretary of Defense, Lloyd Austin, has now made a surprise trip to the Ukrainian capital trying to rally support for Ukraine, even suggesting Ukrainian Forces would be even more aggressive in their fight against invading Russian Forces throughout the winter. Austin's buoyant prediction about the next phase of fighting comes after Ukrainian Forces failed to achieve any decisive breakthrough during a six month counter offensive, which came at a heavy cost for Ukrainian troops and the average age of members of the Ukrainian military is now 43. There's also serious concern in Ukraine about the longer term future of US military aid with some Republicans wanting to halt support Ukraine's ability to quote unquote take the fight to the enemy as Austin put.

0 (32m 43s):
It will depend in large part on the continuation of US military aid, including ammunition, but it is unclear whether the Ukrainians actually have the capacity to push the Russians back at this point, and they've shown no real ability to do so beyond the first few months of the war when they had widespread success. They keep promising there'll be a breakthrough, but there hasn't really been a breakthrough along those lines. As former diplomat Richard Haas suggested, he said, maybe the solution in Ukraine is security guarantees to Ukraine. We make sure that such an invasion never happens again. Ukraine has the ability to withstand such an invasion, but let's be realistic. The battle lines ain't moving. Here's Richard Haas explaining

5 (33m 21s):
They're gonna increasingly say, and we're hearing it in the house, we're hearing it in parts of Europe. Why should we keep doing this? We're already stretched. We're trying to support Israel, we're worried about Taiwan, and even if we give everything we need to give or want to give to Ukraine, it's still won't lead to success. What I argued therefore is the United States needs to have some very direct conversations with Ukraine, with President Zelensky talk about reducing their emphasis on liberating land, increasingly put all their emphasis on holding on to what they've got in the long run diplomatically through sanctions. Yes, we can try to see the rest of their territory return, but for right now, let's have 80% of this country safe. 80% of this country rebuilt.

0 (34m 5s):
Okay, that happens to be a good real politic perspective. Again, American interests should be secured all over the globe, and we do have an interest in things that happen outside of our borders. In just one second, we'll get to the continuing unpopularity of Joe Biden.

PrizePicks (34m 17s):
First, the NBA season is back and NBA fans now is an excellent time to join Prize picks. Even If, you don't follow the NBA prize picks offers projections on pretty much every sport there is N-B-A-M-L-B-N-F-L-N-H-L-P-G-A, college Sports eSports, nascar, like pretty much everything. As I say, prize picks is the easiest and fastest way to play daily fantasy sports. You pick two to six players and you choose whether they will score more or less than their prize picks Projection. you can win up to 25 times your money on a single entry. You don't compete against other people, it's just you versus the Projections. Plus prize Picks has a reboot policy that keeps your entries in play. Even if one of your players gets injured. For NFL games and college football, top 25 matchups If, you have a player who exits the game in the first half and doesn't return in the second half. That player is rebooted. Prize Picks is the only daily fancy sports platform with actual injury insurance. Producer Jake is a big fan of the Memphis Grizzlies. Sadly, they're not amazing this year, but Prize Picks allows Jake to still enjoy watching their games and make entries on his favorite players. He says that the interface is really easy to use. Head over to prize picks.com/ Ben right now. Use promo code Ben for a first deposit match up to a hundred bucks. That's prize picks.com/ Ben with promo code Ben for a deposit match up to $100.

0 (35m 22s):
Also, folks, I bet you thought we were over here just carving turkeys this Thanksgiving, but we're also carving through the woke can nonsense and propaganda with content for you all week and weekend long on Saturday, you won't find any leftovers. Here we have a fresh new episode of Facts. Learn Why Latin America's political trends have put America in imminent danger and how Argentina's latest election could stem the tide on Sunday, get ready for a no holds barred Chad with Israel's former Prime Minister Naftali Bennett. So forget the same old bland Thanksgiving TV specials and join me at DailyWire Plus for a banquet. Fearless Conversations and Facts. Here's a sneak peek. Tell you a a story about a guy called Ben Shimo. This guy lives in was in Be Sheva. He was at the party, the that big party in Rahi where the, there was the big massacre.

0 (36m 5s):
He, he had a car. He, he said to a bunch of folks, get in my car, And. he evacuated them out to be Sheva. saved five lives. And. then he said, well, I'm going back. And, his girlfriend said, you can't, don't go back. Don't go back. He went back evacuated another five people saved their lives back to be Sheva, Went back a third time to the into harm's way. He, he didn't owe anything to anyone. He didn't have to. He's a, he's a citizen. He is not a soldier. He is not even a policeman. On. the third time he took a bullet and died And I just met his, his mom. This is the highest degree of courage that I've seen.

0 (36m 46s):
But like Ben, I've seen about a hundred different cases of of courage that even I Prime Minister of Israel and you know, I fought I was a commander in in special Forces. I've never seen this degree of courage. The best deals of the year are here, and yes, that includes 50% off new annual DailyWire plus memberships. You'll get ad free uncensored exclusive content from all your favorite DailyWire hosts, along with groundbreaking entertainment and documentaries that are reshaping our cultural landscape. But there are so many more deals happening now inside the first ever DailyWire Black Friday shopping guide find 25% off the perfect stocking stuffer.

0 (37m 31s):
Jeremy's chocolate Behold, not only are the famous he, him and she, her chocolate bars back in stock. We're introducing Christmas themed chocolate bars with peppermint and dark chocolate as well. These are all 25% off right now. Shop all of the Black Friday deals now inside the Daily wires gift guide. Visit DailyWire dot com slash Black Friday. Meanwhile, Joe Biden continues to sink in the polls and again, the jokes are now made about Biden. This is bad news for Biden. When the comedians turn on Biden, that's a real problem. They never turned on Barack Obama. They were too busy massaging him. They were too busy performing other specified act upon him. Stephen Colbert, however, has now opened up his guns on Joe Biden. Here he was last night.

8 (38m 10s):
President Biden should continue to do what he's been doing, Connecting personally with people and making jokes about the coverage of his age. Hey everybody, knock, knock. Not sure if it, he is been standing silently in my doorway for a while now. He is a pale fellow, big cloak, long sharp knife on a pole, smiling right at me. Grace, she, his chompers look into his eye sockets to see a little movie about all the fun stuff I did when I was a kid. Good stuff, funny guy.

0 (38m 43s):
Okay, so there is a Stephen Colbert legitimately joking about the death of the presidents of the United States because he is too old. That is not a joke that Stephen Colbert would be making if Joe Biden were riding at 55% in the polls. And the reason they're making these jokes is because Joe Biden cannot get through a single appearance at this point without crashing and burning. Here he was yesterday attempting to tell a story about fentanyl and it does not go well

9 (39m 4s):
As families all across the country gather this week with their loved ones for Thanksgiving. Too many is gonna face looking at an empty chair the first time in Thanksgiving 'cause so many people have died. That's heartbreaking. It's, it really is an American tragedy just in the neighbor and I'm in next door neighbor and just tough stuff. People are dying and, and I'm committed to doing everything in my power as president to get this crisis under control.

0 (39m 34s):
Yeah, I mean he, he's just not with it. He starts stories, he rambles off. I mean, again, everyone can see this. What what's kind of funny is to watch all the members of his administration who desperately wanna run for president to replace him, but are stuck in place because he won't go anywhere. Watching them defend him is really, is really quite humorous. Here's Pete Buttigieg, who desperately wants to run for president despite the fact that he's a terrible Secretary of transportation and a running joke whose only actual accomplishment was apparently being mayor of a small town in Indiana and also being gay. Here is Mayor Pete Buttigieg.

10 (40m 5s):
I would add to that airfare is becoming much more reasonable lately and unemployment that I don't think has stayed this low for this long in my lifetime. But that doesn't mean you can go around saying, you know, everything's perfect and we recognize that Americans have had a rough few years, especially when you think about Covid and what that did to our society and effects that we are still working through. You think about some of the political polarization that's going on. We're not out there saying that all of the work is done. We're out there pointing to the good work that we're doing.

0 (40m 37s):
They're doing so much good work. So much good work says people de judge, ah, they're not and they, they've got a lot of problems, which means wait for it. They gotta redirect toward Trump and it's their entire strategy. Now again, I'm wondering increasingly these days whether that strategy is going to be successful or not, because it may all be baked into the cake. I think that their strategy as of next year is trials, trials, trials trump in front of courts and all the rest. But the problem is that because they launched all the indictments so early, it's possible that they already got their bang for their buck on that one. It's possible that as Trump appears in court, it doesn't have all that much impact because we're like, oh look, he's in court again. In the same way that they kept trying to impeach him and we're like, well, is it a day ending? And why? I guess they're trying to impeach him. They're gonna do the same thing with these court cases. So they're going back to the playbook.

0 (41m 19s):
The playbook is, as we said yesterday, he's Hitler, the New York Times. Now admitting the quiet part out loud, quote, ignore Trump. Democrats now want him plastered all over the news. Democrats are hoping that more attention on him can help turn around President Biden's fortunes. Reid Epstein reporting. When Donald Trump left the White House, Democrats didn't wanna hear another word from him. President Biden dismissed him as the former guy. A party wide consensus held that he was best left ignored. Three years later, Mr. Biden's reelection campaign and democratic officials across the party spectrum have landed on a new solution to his political slump. More Trump criticizing the news media for giving Trump a platform is out quietly pining for major networks to again broadcast live coverage of Trump campaign rallies is in behind the improbable longing for the former president to gobble up political oxygen.

0 (41m 59s):
His Democrats, years long dependence on the Trump outrage machine. Since his ascent, Trump has been a one man democratic turnout operation, uniting an otherwise fractured opposition and fueling victories in three straight election cycles. Now, Democrats worry the fever of Trump fatigue has passed and some voters are softening toward a man they once loathed. Many others may simply be paying little attention as Trump's share of the daily national conversation has diminished. As I've said before, Trump's best strategy in this is to basically go to the basement and then just point to Joe Biden. If he does that, he could very easily be president again and they keep upping the ante. So Joe Scarborough, I mean, my goodness, this is unhinged. So here is Joe Scarborough making a doomsday prediction for Donald Trump's second term trying to scare you into voting for the old man. Here we go.

8 (42m 39s):
Just because he hasn't done it yet doesn't mean he won't do it when he gets a chance to do it, and if he is voted into office, then a lot of these people that are talking about literal or figurative or whatever the hell they're saying, you're gonna look like idiots because he will do, he will get away with, he will imprison, he will execute whoever he's allowed to imprison, execute, drive from the country. Just look at his past. It's not really hard to read. The only, again, the only thing that stood between him and the destruction of American democracy was the federal judiciary.

0 (43m 29s):
Well, that's not true. I mean, Mike Pence didn't allow him to do what he was doing. Mitch McConnell didn't allow him to what he was doing. And also like my favorite part is like, look at his past, he'll execute whoever he wants. Did did I miss the bar horizontal Trump actually fulfilled his, his joke about shooting somebody on Fifth Avenue. Did I? Wasn't he president for four years? Were there lots of political executions that were happening at that time? Did I miss it or wasn't Donald Trump actually so weak need with regard to the DOJ that he let Hillary Clinton off the hook in the mistaken, but I think sort of justifiable belief that it'd be better for the country if we didn't prosecute our political opponents. A rule that was then broken eviscerated actually by the Biden administration. All this talk about how scary Trump is, it's Joe Biden who's activated the DOJ against his political opponents.

0 (44m 11s):
It's Joe Biden who has called his political opponents traitors and that none, none of this washes. And again, I don't even, it even was this for Joe Scarborough. I mean If, you really believes that, that this is Donald Trump's passing. I'm just wondering why five years ago, seven years ago when he was, when, when Donald Trump was campaigning, why, why precisely is it that Joe Scarborough was like sitting right next to him, joking with him? When's the last time you joked with Hitler? Is that something you've routinely done? I don't think so. Weird in just one second, we'll get to the White House's top priority these days, which of course is the trans issue because of course it is.

Helix (44m 44s):
First. I've been talking about my Helix mattress for years. As you know, I took that two minute sleep quiz, got a mattress that was match perfectly to my body type and sleep preferences. It is firm but breathable, which is precisely what I need. Helix has a sleep quiz that matches your body type and sleep preferences for you because you should have a mattress personalized for you. The same way I have a mattress personalized for me. They have a Helix Elite collection that is their high end collection and harnesses years of extensive mattress expertise to offer a truly elevated sleep experience. And that collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for specific sleep positions and firmness preferences. Head on over to Helix sleep.com/ Ben, take their two minute sleep quiz, find the perfect mattress for your body and sleep type. Your mattress comes to your door, shipped directly for free. Plus Helix has that 10 year warranty. you can try it out for 100 nights risk free. They'll even pick it up for you. If, you don't love it, but you will. Helix has over 12,005 star reviews their financing options. Flexible payment plans, make it so a great night's sleep is never far away. Helix is offering 25% off all mattress orders and two free Pillows. For our listeners in honor of Black Friday, heading over to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. Use code Helix partner 25 is their best offer, yet it's not gonna last long with Helix. Better sleep starts right now.

ZipRecruiter (45m 48s):
Also simple fact of the matter is it is hard to find really good employees, but with Thanksgiving coming, I just wanna give thanks to our Nashville crew. Jonesie, the director Adam, who edits this thing. Makes it look good. Matt, the post-production manager who manages all the editors, they're all doing an amazing job. How do we find so many amazing people? Well, ZipRecruiter definitely helped. If you're hiring, you need to find the best people for your team. You need a ZipRecruiter right now. you can try it for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. ZipRecruiter uses smart technology to scan thousands of resumes to find the most qualified people for your job. ZipRecruiter lets the most qualified people know they're a great match and encourages them to apply. ZipRecruiter is trusted by millions. In fact, over 3.8 million businesses have come to ZipRecruiter for their hiring needs. See for yourself why so many business owners and hiring managers are thankful for ZipRecruiter four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter, get a quality candidate within day one. I'd be super grateful. If, you headed on over to ZipRecruiter right now. ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Again, that's ZipRecruiter dot com slash D-A-I-L-Y-W-I-E ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire.

0 (46m 48s):
Well, meanwhile, the White House is focusing on the things that truly, truly matter. Like of course, transgender victims of violence day or transgender Day of Remembrance or whatever the going day for trans people is this week because there's like an entire calendar for the L-G-B-T-Q community. It is amazing how many days there are. I mean like just an insane number of days. Let, lemme give you a little taste of the calendar. February, 2023 in the United States. Well, let's see. There was aromatic spectrum awareness Week 2023. That was February. In March, there was zero Discrimination Day. Omnisexual Awareness Day, international Transgender Day of Visibility. In April, there was International Asexuality Day, a day of Silence, international Lesbian Visibility Day and Lesbian Visibility Week in May, there was International Day against homophobia, transphobia, biphobia agender Pride Day and Pansexual Visibility Day In June, there was Pride Month.

0 (47m 40s):
Of course, July was Omnisexual Visibility Day, non-binary Awareness Week, non-binary People's Day and International Drag Day in August, there was Wear It Purple Day. That's from Australia. In September, 2023, there was Bisexual Awareness Week and Bisexual Visibility Day, October last month. LGBT History Month, which included International Lesbian Day, national Coming Out Day, international Pronouns Day, asexual Awareness Week and Intersex Awareness Day. Are you aware yet? It's a lot of awareness. Are you aware you should be aware, more aware? How aware are you? You need to be more aware. We'll have another day then you'll be more aware. Are they visible? They need to be more visible. Have you seen them? They're visible or are they invisible? Probably we need more visibility days.

0 (48m 21s):
November all month is transgender awareness month. Congratulations to us. That's exciting. They also had transgender Parent Day 2023, which begs the question as to which parent actually burned the child. Intersex Day of Remembrance and Transgender Awareness Week, which of course featured Transgender Day of Remembrance as though there is a giant genocide going on of transgender people in the United States. And just to make sure you remember in December coming up, just to mark your calendar. World AIDS Day is December 1st. Pansexual Pride Day is December 8th, and Human Rights day is 2023, December 10th. So that, that is very exci, that that is the full, in case you missed it on your calendar, that is the full calendar of lgbtq plus events.

0 (49m 1s):
So yesterday, the White House touted transgender victims of violence. Here is Kain Jean-Pierre, the world's most diverse and least talented press secretary, talking about all of this.

11 (49m 13s):
Today on Transgender Day of a Remembrance, we grieve the 26 transgender Americans who were killed this year, year after year. We see that these victims are disproportionately black women and women of color, and no one should face violence, live in fear, or be discriminated against simply for being themselves.

0 (49m 39s):
So just statistically she is wrong. She statistically, she's wrong. Last year there are apparently 26, quote unquote trans women who were murdered as opposed to, you know, like 5,000 dead women in the United States murdered every year, like actual biological women and, and way more biological men. Like the murder rate among trans people is extremely low compared to the general population. And in fact, there's a list from human rights Counsel of the 26 trans people killed in 2023. And in the vast majority of cases, like nearly all of them, no motive is listed. For example, Jasmine Star Mack, AKA Joshua Parker, stabbed in the leg and no suspects or motives listed.

0 (50m 22s):
Casey Lee Johnson murdered and robbed unique banks. Home invasion. Mother also killed three more injured z Iman, shot by coworker Maria Jose Rivera murder suicide with boyfriend Cahe Henderson, shot by habitual criminality, repeater tuta, non-binary male shot by police. During environmental protest, Tasia Woodland person shot outside a bar. Gender identity according to police, not a factor. Again, the list goes on and on and on and on. And yet we are told again that trans people in the United States are under a tremendous threat. It is amazing. Why don't they just list Islamophobia there too?

0 (51m 2s):
I mean, it's just the, the number of phantom social ills that apparently is rife in the United States according to this White House, while they ignore actual social ill is truly an astonishing thing. you know, this is still a White House that is pretending that the Nashville trans shooter who murdered a bunch of kids and that had nothing to do with transness or politics at all. They're still pretending that one away, but they're having transgender days of remembrance at the White House. And we all have to pretend that transgender people in the United, or people who identify as members of the opposite sex, that they're routinely being beaten in the streets. It's just absolute silliness. It's not true at all. But you know, none of that matters because of the truth doesn't matter. Meanwhile, the White House is very excited because they have now achieved some guilty pleas against the founder of Binance.

0 (51m 51s):
Binance is the largest global crypto exchange Now. it happens to be the case that we've seen a bunch of scandals in the crypto space. Obviously, Sam Bankman free was involved in the crypto space. So Silicon Valley Bank meltdown, that was a bank that was involved largely in the crypto space. Binance, same sort of thing. Apparently, according to the Wall Street Journal, the chief executive of Binance, the largest global cryptocurrency exchange, stepped down and pled guilty to violating us anti-money laundering requirements in a deal that might preserve the company's ability to continue operating according to court documents. Shang Piao appeared in Seattle Federal Court on Tuesday and entered his plea. According to court records, prosecutors accused Binance, which jail owns a facilitating trans facilitating transactions with sanctioned groups. I thi this seems like a perfectly valid prosecution, by the way.

0 (52m 34s):
I'm just wondering why it is that the American federal government also facilitates transactions with sanctioned groups, namely the government of Iran. But here was Secretary Yellen. Very excited about this.

12 (52m 44s):
Bance processed these transactions, but it never filed a single suspicious activity report, and it also allowed over one and a half million virtual currency trades that violated sanctions. So we have taken the largest enforcement action in treasury's history. FinCEN settlement agreement assesses a penalty of $3.4 billion. OFAC settlement agreement assesses a penalty of nearly a billion dollars.

0 (53m 23s):
Okay, again, all this is worthwhile. I just wanna ask the question, why is it the United States government is directly facilitating the movement of money to the Iranian regime? One of the things they're going after Binance for is the facilitation of $899 million in processed trades between Americans and users believed to be in Iran. The United States just freed up billions, tens of billions of dollars in oil revenues to the Iranian government, which is spreading terror around the region and ending with the tax on American troops. So maybe they should take a look at that as well, so long as they're looking at violations of law. Alright guys, the rest of the show is continuing right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be joined on the line by Congressman Mike Gallagher. He's on a committee that has uncovered an astonishing story about a secret Chinese bio lab in California.

0 (54m 4s):
If you're not a member, become a member Use code Shapiro. Check out for two months free and all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.