0 (0s):
Democrats turn to the race card to distract from Joe Biden's looming corruption problems. The View gets very upset at me for not liking Barbie and Bronny. James suffers a cardiac arrest. I'm Ben. Spiro This is the Bench Bureau show.

ExpressVPN (16s):
Today's show is sponsored by ExpressVPN. Do you like your web history being seen and sold to advertisers? No. Me neither. Get ExpressVPN right now at ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben.

0 (23s):
So today, Hunter Biden is expected to plead guilty to a couple of misdemeanor accounts of failing to pay his taxes at a federal courthouse in Delaware. That is according to N B C news. This is the first time that the Justice Department has brought charges against the child of sitting precedent. But of course the charges have been knocked way, way, way down because according to I R S whistleblowers, this dude Hunter Biden took in literally $17.3 million on behalf of the family over the course of 2014 to 2019. And then the I R S and the D O J and the FBI all waited until a bunch of the tax evasion charges had basically fallen off the radar. They went beyond the statute of limitations and then of course they apparently, according to the I R S whistleblowers, deny David Weiss, the US attorney in this case, the ability to pursue the case as a special counsel, which would've allowed him to do interviews in certain ways and charge in certain districts.

0 (1m 8s):
They did not pursue any lines of inquiry about how exactly the money passed to Hunter and then whether that money passed from Hunter to the big guy Joe Biden. The media are gonna play this up as though the D O J and the FBI really did their job here, but this is a Sweetheart Plea arrangement and everybody knows it. According to N B C News, Biden's expected to follow the terms of the Plea agreement he reached last month with US attorney David Weiss outlining the charges. Weiss's office said in a statement, Hunter Biden received taxable income in excess of $1.5 million annually in 2017, 2018. Despite owing an excess of a hundred thousand dollars in federal income taxes every year, he did not pay any income tax due for either year. I mean, put aside the irony of the fact that Joe Biden is constantly talking about how the rich are escaping their taxes and how the rich don't pay their fair share and now go down and how his son is the rich who didn't pay his fair share.

0 (1m 53s):
I promise you, I paid a lot of money in taxes last year. I paid way more than my fair share. This dude paid pretty much nothing 27 20 18. The fact is that Hunter Biden is being let off the hook because his father is the president. As per our usual arrangement, Biden was facing a separate gun charge for illegally owning a cult Cobra 38 special handgun. But the D O J said that he'd reached a pretrial agreement that allowed him to essentially go to drug rehab instead of being charged for lying on federal forms. Again, put aside the irony of the fact that Joe Biden has basically said that you, the law abiding gun owner should not have a gun and that Hunter Biden gets to go to drug rehab after apparently lying on federal forms about being a drug addict in order to obtain a gun, which then ended up dumped in a dumpster near a high school.

0 (2m 36s):
Put aside all of that. The fact is that this is once again a Sweetheart Plea arrangement. Now there is a sort of late breaking story with regard to the Sweetheart Plea arrangement. The New York Post reporting it yesterday. First on Hunter Biden's legal team appears to pull a dirty trick on Tuesday to block the release of damning evidence ahead of his expected guilty Plea to federal charges of tax evasion and weapons crimes. The drama began in the morning when the House Ways and Means Committee filed an amicus brief to Delaware US District Judge Mary Ellen Reka arguing the 53 year old had benefited from political interference, which calls into question the propriety of the investigation into his alleged crimes. The filing included the testimony from the two I R SS whistleblowers. What happened next was outlined in a letter sent to the judge on Tuesday afternoon by the committee's top lawyer, Theodore Cotilla, quote, at approximately 1:30 PM we received word that our filing was being removed from the docket, so the House Ways and Means Committee filed an amicus brief asking for the Plea bargain to basically be thrown out for corruption.

0 (3m 31s):
And weirdly enough, they got a notice at one 30 yesterday that the filing was removed from the docket. We promptly contacted the clerk's office as the lawyer and we were advised that someone contacted the court representing they worked from my office and that they were asking the court to remove this from the docket. We immediately advised this was inaccurate. The clerk's office responded that we would need to refile. We have done so now. Cotilla included email exchanges with court officials and Hunter Biden's attorneys in the fresh filing. Hi Ted. Following up on our recent telephone conversation, the woman who called was a Jessica Bengals confirmed court official Samantha Grimes. She said she worked with Theodore Cotilla and it was important the document was removed immediately or they could file a motion to seal. I do deeply apologize for the confusion on our part. Bengals is the Director of Litigation Services at Latham and Watkins, a massive New York based law firm and Hunter Biden's attorney Chris Clark was formerly a partner over there.

0 (4m 19s):
When Cotilla confronted the first son's legal team, Hunter's, Hunter's attorneys tried to claim the filing contained confidential and identifying information even though the whistleblower testimony has been public for more than a month. The timestamps from the emails indicated the request to take the document down was made after Cotilla refused to request to file the testimony under seal. This is what Hunter Biden's attorney wrote. Quote, as far as I'm aware, the managing attorney from Latham and Watkins called the clerk's office to note that personal tax information of the defendant had been filed in a non redacted manner and to inquire regarding having the information sealed as we told you we would. And as you said, you understood as far as I'm aware, the clerk took the filing down on their own Accord. Illa then warn, and you should probably take a step back from your statements, the clerk's office advised that it was representing to her.

0 (5m 0s):
The request was being made by my firm. We'll be advising Judge Reco of this in proper context. Latham and Watkins is saying, no, no, no. We just asked that it be taken down because it didn't. It contained identifying information but the House Ways and Means Committee is saying, no, no, no, you called them up and you said that you were us and that you were requesting as us that we should take down the filing. Pretty amazing. So we'll see how this shakes out of course, but one thing is perfectly clear, if the person whose name were on the charges where anybody but Hunter Biden, that's who would be going to jail. As the Wall Street Journal editorial board points out Eileen Jay O'Connor writing, you'd go to prison for what Hunter Biden did Prison for Tax Crimes is real. In the 1990s, New York Coach Hotelier, Leona Helmsley served nearly two years in prison for defrauding the government by having her business pay her personal expenses and claim tax deductions for them.

0 (5m 48s):
What has been called Hunter Biden Sweetheart Plea deal wasn't the subject of the House Oversight Committee's July 19th hearing where the two I R SS whistleblowers testified. Instead, lawmakers intended to explore ways in which I r s agents said the Justice Department had thwarted their probe. And again, the thwarting of the probe is really the big issue here because there are way deeper questions to ask than Hunter Biden's tax crimes. Like where did the money go? Who was the big guy? Why are there texts on Hunter Biden's computer talking about how he paid his daddy's bills? Why are there texts on Hunter Biden's computer WhatsApps two foreign agents saying, my daddy is sitting right here. Why is it that all of this was shut down? Well, we, we theoretically could find out some answers to this in the near future. David Weiss, who is the Hunter Biden prosecutor, who according to I r s whistleblowers, was essentially blocked from special counsel status.

0 (6m 33s):
He now may testify in front of Congress. We'll get to that in just one moment.

Pure Talk (6m 36s):
First, you know a company is looking out for you when they actually upgrade your service and don't charge you for it. This is great news for new and current Pure Talk customers. Pure Talk just added data to every plan and includes a mobile hotspot with no price increase whatsoever. If you've considered Pure Talk before but haven't made the switch, take a look again for just 20 bucks a month, you'll get unlimited talk text and now 50% more five G data plus their new mobile hotspot is why I love Pure Talk. They're veteran owned. They only hire the best customer service team located right here in the United States of America. Most families are saving almost a thousand dollars a year while enjoying the most dependable five G network in the country. Remember, you vote with how you spend your cash, so stop supporting companies that hate your guts. When you go to Pure Talk dot com slash er, you'll save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage because they actually value you as a customer. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Again, Pure Talk Wireless for Americans by Americans. I have Pure Talk coverage myself. I use it for all my business calls. Their coverage is great because their network is one of us networks in the country. Head on over to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. You'll save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage right now. Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. That's Pure Talk Wireless for Americans buy. Americans go check them out right now.

0 (7m 39s):
Okay, so now the Hunter Biden prosecutor David Weiss, he's the US attorney for the District of Delaware. Apparently he will be allowed to testify before the House Judiciary Committee, the Department of Justice sent a letter to the Judiciary Committee. According to The Daily Wire Weiss's testimony would come after the announcement of a Plea deal where Hunter would plead guilty. The D o j appreciates the committee on the judiciary's acceptance of our offer for Weiss to testify at a public hearing before the committee. The department is ready to offer Weiss to testify shortly after Congress returns from the August district work period as described more fully below the potential dates for the testimony September 27th or 28th on October 18th or 19th. That is a long time in the future. You may notice that the date today is July 26th. So they're talking about September or October for Weiss to testify because he's apparently so darn busy.

0 (8m 22s):
The D O J added in his letter that there were misunderstandings about what exactly its work was and why Weiss was denied special counsel status or if he was, according to the letter quote. We are deeply concerned by any misrepresentations about our work, whether deliberate or arising from misunderstandings that could unduly harm public confidence in the even-handed administration of justice to which we are dedicated. Well, I mean, I'm concerned about the even-handed administration of justice given the fact that apparently, according to the I R S whistleblowers, David Weiss was barred from asking Serious questions for the i r s agents about how money was flowing, which is the exact topic of this investigation. Again, one i r s whistleblower, Joseph Ziegler, he's the gay Democrat who pointed that out during his testimony to say, listen, I don't have a dog in this fight.

0 (9m 4s):
He's disputed several statements made by Weiss saying that Hunter should face more serious criminal charges. Now, David Weiss has been very squirrely about what exactly he asked for and what exactly he received from the D O J. Apparently there was an open meeting where he told the i r s whistleblowers that he had asked for special counsel status and was denied. Then Merrick Garland was like, well, he never asked for it, which kind of Eli the question as to why you didn't give it to him in the first place, which is exactly what Merrick Garland did do with regard to, for example, the Special counsel going after Donald Trump there, Merrick Garland was like, hands off, you get special counsel status. When it came to Hunter Biden, it was like, well, unless he asks for it, then I suppose I won't give it to him. And then we just have an argument over who asked for what, when.

0 (9m 44s):
Well, all of this is going to blow up in public view because the fact is that we now have too many pieces of information suggesting corruption involving Joe. We do beyond the, all the texts from Hunter, again, the the most damning text remains the 2019 text from Hunter Biden to his daughter at which he says he pays dad's bills. That is a wildly damning text. But now we have information that's been put forward by no less than two of Hunter Biden's business partners talking about Joe's involvement into the, in the business, at least to the extent that Joe's being used as sort of the Desex Mackinac, that when something was happening and they needed to call Joe to demonstrate that they actually had some poll, they would just call him on the phone. Devin Archer, who is John Kerry's son-in-law and, and somebody who is business partners with Hunter Biden, he's supposed to testify behind closed doors this week about all of that.

0 (10m 29s):
And of course, you know, to Tony Bobinski largely ignored in 2020 said exactly the same thing. He said that Hunter Biden would call Joe Biden up on the phone. He would bring Joe Biden to meetings, all the rest of this sort of stuff. Well, Kevin McCarthy for his part says that an impeachment inquiry will probably get underway sometime in the near future. It's very doubtful that impeachment inquiry does not lead to impeachment. I've yet to see an impeachment inquiry that does not lead to impeachment. And again, it is, it, I I find it incredibly difficult to believe. I laid out the entire timeline yesterday on the show that Joe Biden is Pure as the driven snow, knew nothing about Hunter picking up bags of foreign cash all over the world, using his name was on the phone with Hunter and the foreign business partners was Squiring Hunter on Air Force two to places like China and was impacting policy in the countries where Hunter is picking up the cash.

0 (11m 11s):
All this just a big winky dinky. Now, speaker McCarthy said yesterday that impeachment inquiry could be something very likely in the near future.

3 (11m 19s):
So now you have the President saying one thing that we've proven is not true. You've got i r s whistleblowers saying something when it comes to government treating the Biden's different. You've got an informant claiming that the Biden family had been bribed. Should you ignore that or should investigate that, the only way you can investigate that is through an impeachment inquiry. So the committee would have the power to get all the documents that they would need. What I said last night, and I continue, I said it before, when more of this continues to unravel, it rises to the level of impeachment inquiry where you would have the Congress to have the power to get to all these answers.

3 (12m 4s):
I would think the Biden family would want to answer these questions as well, provide the documents instead of holding them back.

0 (12m 11s):
Okay? What's amazing about this is the Democrat's response to all of this, because again, the evidence is there that there was something nefarious going on. I mean, Hunter and Joe are wor they're hand in glove for years on end while all of this is going around. And meanwhile, you got people like Jamie Raskin, who again, was one of the leaders of the impeachment into Donald Trump who said that this is secondhand years old allegations. What, what would firsthand constitute firsthand allegation? I mean, it is not secondhand. Tony Bobinski was business partners with Hunter Biden. Devin Archer was business puncher was business partners with Hunter Biden Hunter Biden texted things about Joe. That's all firsthand. That is not secondhand. That is all very, very firsthand. These are people who are directly involved in the allegations at issue, apparently, according to Jamie Raskin, the only thing that would count as like a firsthand allegation is if Joe Biden raised his hand and literally said, I took money from my, from my son Hunter, or he got a bunch of bank records and just spilled them into public view, which is something he absolutely will never do.

0 (13m 7s):
Meanwhile, the White House is tweeting out, quote, their eagerness to go after Biden, regardless if the truth is seemingly bottomless. At a briefing Tuesday, white House press secretary Kareem Shaere said, we're not gonna get into hypotheticals. When asked about g o p efforts to impeach Biden. Now this was always going to happen, okay? Because Joe Biden has been corrupt for a very, very long time. I mean, the dude owns a lot of houses for a guy who was on like a hundred 50,000 to 200,000 a year salary as a senator, and yet he had these very, very nice houses in Delaware. I mean, there's been talk about Joe Biden and the Delaware credit card companies for a very long time. So this is not anything new or shocking. The only thing that's shocking is the extent to which the media will go to not ask Serious questions about this. Meanwhile, other Democrats, of course, are completely uninterested in this inquiry.

0 (13m 49s):
Here's Representative Madeline Dean, she's a Democrat from Pennsylvania. She says, I have no questions about this. All my questions have been answered. Really, I I, I love to hear how they were answered and what questions you asked.

4 (13m 59s):
So we're at a time of great contrast, Democrats leading, investing in America and Republicans chasing conspiracy theories.

5 (14m 7s):
O on the subject of what could be appending impeachment inquiry into, into President Biden. What questions, if any, do you have about Joe Biden's connection to Hunter Biden's business dealings?

4 (14m 25s):
I I don't have any at this point, but certainly there are questions that can be asked and and should be answered if there was any connection, but we don't see any evidence of that whatsoever. So they're making it up whole cloth.

0 (14m 40s):
They're making it up. Everything is made up, which is weird because it's not made up. And again, we laid out the entire timeline and we have con contemporaneous documentation and we have whistleblower allegations, and we have confidential human sources who explicitly say that the heads of Barisma were openly claiming to have bribed Hunter and Joe Biden, and all of this is worthy of questioning, is it not? And yet we're just told to hand wave it away. It's all old allegations who cares about it? But there, there's nothing, there's nothing to see here. Now here's the thing, the smoke is going to lead to fire, and the smoke is not there for no reason. In just a second, we'll get to Joe Biden's continuing collapse on a personal level, even with the one year anniversary of overturning Roe versus Wade, there's a lot of work to be done. In fact, you might say there's more work to be done now than ever because there is more work that is capable of being done.

PreBorn! (15m 24s):
Abortion is still the leading cause of death among infants in the United States and on planet Earth. Sadly, with the abortion pill accounting for over 50% of all abortions, babies' lives are at a greater risk now than ever. Thankfully, you and I can do something about it. Thanks to our partners at pre-born network of clinics. Pre-born is the largest provider of free ultrasounds in the United States. They offer love, support, and compassion to hurting women, helping them make the right choice by letting a mom see and hear her baby on ultrasound, the child's chance at life is doubled. Preborn clinics provide moms who choose life with maternity and baby closed diapers, car seats, counseling, and much more. All those services up to two years of assistance are provided free of charge. All of this so that mommy will have the baby join me on my mission to save 17,000 babies from abortion. One ultrasound is 28 bucks and $140 donation gives five babies a chance at life. A $15,000 donation covers the cost of an ultrasound machine and saves countless babies' lives for years to come. All gifts tax deductible. We are the answer to saving lives. Donate by dialing pound two 50. Say keyword baby, that's pound two five zero, baby. Or go to preborn.com/ Ben. That's preborn.com/ Ben

4 (16m 21s):
. That's the most important thing you're going to do today or probably any other day. Okay? Meanwhile, when Joe Biden continues to wanderer around not knowing where he is, yesterday he claimed to have cured cancer, which is, which is interesting. I I, I figure that like, that's, that's breaking big if true. Here is Joe Biden claiming that he has cured cancer.

6 (16m 41s):
If you could do anything at all, Joe, what would you do? I said I'd cure cancer, and they looked at me like, why cancer? Because no one thinks we can. That's why. And we can. We ended cancer as we know it.

0 (16m 56s):
We ended cancer as we know it. I, I feel like I I would've heard about that if that were, if that were true. Where's Daniel Dale? And the fact checkers over at c n n. The president claims that he has cured cancer. Perhaps next he'll cure dementia. I, I, I have, I have, I have doubts and quibbles. Meanwhile, in the funniest Joe Biden story of the day, it's funny because it, it's actually a little sad, you know, as a new dog owner, let me tell you how your dog acts is largely a reflection of how you train your dog. If you are good in training your dog, your dog will not bite people. And yet Joe Biden has had not one, but two dogs who apparently routinely bite people. According to the New York Times, one of President Biden's dogs has now bitten several secret service agents and even sent one to the hospital, part of a series of at least 10 incidents of aggressive behavior.

0 (17m 38s):
According to internal emails recently obtained by a conservative watchdog group, the correspondence shows commander, the nearly two year old German Shepherd, had struggled to adjust to life at the White House where he arrived in 2021 and Delaware, where the Biden's own two homes. Early in November, 2022 officials on the White House medical team chose to send an officer whom commander had bitten on the arm and the thigh to the hospital. Just a week later, commander bitten an agent on the left thigh. That same month, another agent was left shaken. When he felt the need to hoist up the chair he was sitting on to use as a shield. When Commander began barking at him from the top of a White House staircase, six of the incidents were bites that resulted in some form of medical attention. This, of course, is not the only Biden dog who's been a bad, bad doggo. In March, 2021, the Bidens had to ship two of their other dogs, champ and major to Delaware for two weeks of training after Major had a biting incident with the White House staff member Champ died later that year, assassinated by Hillary Clinton, apparently.

0 (18m 28s):
So, yeah, he's, he's a great, great, great job, Joe Biden. Meanwhile, on the policy front, a federal judge has now tossed Joe Biden's administration asylum rule for migrants. According to the Washington Post, a federal judge in California struck down the Biden administration's temporary restrictions on migrants seeking asylum ruling. The government's plans to reduce illegal crossings on the US Mexico border actually violated federal law. So they put in place a system that imposed penalized penalties on migrants who crossed the border illegally, trying to funnel them to ports of entry, where then they would be let into the country willy-nilly. And so far, that's been the result. There's been a lot fewer lines at the, at the border. There have been a lot less chaos on the border, but a lot of those people just enter the country willy-nilly. I I, the bigger problem when it came to illegal immigration was never the kind of vast scenes on the border.

0 (19m 11s):
The problem was What the problem remains, which is people illegally entering the country by claiming asylum when they don't actually have a legal right to asylum. But because the process works and it's overloaded in this way that you come, you claim asylum, and then we basically give you a deli ticket counter and we say, show up in three months for an asylum claim, and then you show up in three months, and then we give you another ticket saying, show up for a court date, and then you never show up again. Statistically, this is what happens. People show up for their first court date, but not their second court date. This is why you have 11, 12, 14 million illegal immigrants in the United States. Well, now a judge has argued that Joe Biden can't even do that. So even the illegal immigration policy that Joe Biden designed in order to get people to at least stand in line at the ports of entry. Now, a judge has said, you can't even do that.

0 (19m 51s):
According to the Washington Post, the judge sided with advocacy groups that had argued the Biden restrictions, violated federal law by endangering migrants, fleeing harm, and preventing migrants from seeking asylum if they cross the border illegally, which Congress never intended. So even Joe Biden's attempts to regularize his bad illegal immigration policy are failing on, on every front. Well, when Democrats are failing, when approval ratings are low, when it appears that the President of the United States is on a weakened footing, well, it's precisely that time that you can expect that Democrats are probably going to start playing the race card. And as you might've guessed, that is precisely what is happening.

Black Rifle Coffee Company (20m 26s):
We'll get to that momentarily first. When I wake up every morning, my kids wake me up. This, this morning was my, my three year old. She woke me up fairly early. She's being very cute. But the only thing that can get me going is my black Rifle Coffee Black Rifle Coffee literally fuels The Daily Wire. Our office drinks about 40 pounds of their coffee every single week. If you haven't tried Black Rifle Coffee yet, you need to, A great place to start is their complete the Mission Fuel sampler, giving you a taste of the entire spectrum of black Rifle Coffee flavor profiles, offering four ounce bags of the following roasts, the silencer smooth, AK 47 espresso beyond black and just black. The only hard part will be picking a favorite amongst these classic roasts. Black Rifle Coffee is a veteran founded coffee company operated by principled men and women who honor those who protect defendant and support our country. With every purchase you make, they give back, stop running out of coffee, sign up for a coffee club subscription to have black Rifle Coffee delivered straight to your door on a schedule you'll never forget about your coffee. Again, go to black Rifle Coffee dot com, use promo code Shapiro, check out for 10% off your order. That's black Rifle Coffee dot com. Use promo code Shapiro 10% off. You can also find Black Rifle Coffee and Grocery and Convenience stores near you. Black Rifle Coffee is America's coffee.

6 (21m 27s):
Okay, so, so Joe Biden yesterday honored Emmett Till and his mother with a new national monument, which is all that, that's fine. I mean, Emmett Till obviously was lynched. He was assassinated for the great crime of apparently having allegedly Wolf whistled a white lady in the, in the pre-civil rights era south. And his mom made the brave move of having an open casket at his funeral and, and pointing out that these are the wages of racism. And so now the federal government is going to establish the Emmett Till and Mamie Till Mobley National Monument, which is going to be in a few different places.

0 (22m 1s):
It's not, it's not just one place. The Monument honors not only Emmett Till, but also his mother, who became a renowned civil rights advocate according to a White House official. The new monument will protect places that tell the story of Emmett Till's, too short life and racially motivated murder, the unjust acquittal of his murderers and the activism of his mother, who courageously brought the world's attention to the brutal injustices and racism of the time, catalyzing the Civil Rights Movement. And it will include things like the Roberts Temple Church of God, of in Christ in Chicago. That is where Till's funeral service was held. Also, the Gral landing in Mississippi where it's believed that till's body was recovered from the Tallahatchie River. That will be the second location, and the third location will be at the Tallahatchie County Second District Courthouse in Mississippi, where till's killers were acquitted.

0 (22m 41s):
Okay? All of that, you know, it is worth remembering the evils of American history in order so that we can see how far we've come, but that's not the real reason why Joe Biden is doing this. The reason that Joe Biden is doing this is you can see from the announcement, the real reason that Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are doing this is so that they can pretend that there are a bunch of Republicans who are just like the murderers of Emmett Till. That is the way they do this. It really is gross. Again, this should be something about which Americans are fairly united, I would hope universally United Amer American racism is evil, racism is bad. The murder of people on the basis of their skin evil, right? We should all be on the same side of that. So why is it that this administration is now using this announcement of the monument in order to go after Ron DeSantis in Florida and falsely claim that Florida is replete with the same kind of racism?

0 (23m 27s):
It's really gross. So Biden let it off. Yesterday, he was talking about complicity and complicity in racism, and as you'll see this more morphs very, very quickly into an attack on Joe Biden and Kamala Harris'. Political opponents

6 (23m 39s):
Was a lesson I learned of coming out of not like real leaders in the Civil Rights Movement when I came outta the Civil Rights Movement as a kid, as a public defender. And I used to, you know, I used to say, think that if you pass something that was good, you can make hate go away. Hate never goes away. It just hides. It hides under the rocks and give 'em a little bit of oxygen by bad people, it comes roaring out again. It's up to all of us to deal with that, up to all of us, to stop it up to all of us. The best way to do this with the truth, a different context, but I think it's applies here.

6 (24m 25s):
Silence is complicity. I will not be silent, nor will you be silent about what happened.

0 (24m 31s):
Okay? Again, when he says things like it, it doesn't go away. It just hides under rocks. So first of all, racism in the United States has abated beyond any other western country by a long shot. Again, look at the polling with regards to, for example, interracial marriage. It went from virtually no one in the United States was in favor of interracial marriage to everyone in the United States is fine with interracial marriage by the polling data, okay? But according to Joe Biden, it never goes away. It just goes to hide. So what does he mean by that? What does he mean? Well, you know, What, the implication is, the implication is that even though those evil Republicans who oppose Joe Biden won't openly be racist quietly, they're very racist. Kamala Harris, who you know, is obviously ramping up for the possibility that Joe Biden just keels over any day because he looks like he's going to keel over any day. She really just says the quiet part out loud.

0 (25m 11s):
She just goes right after Ron DeSantis in Florida. Again, there's a reason why they're linking these two issues

7 (25m 18s):
Today. There are those in our nation who would prefer to erase or even rewrite the ugly parts of our past. Those who attempt to teach that enslaved people benefited from slavery, those who insult us in an attempt to gaslight us, who try to divide our nation with unnecessary debates, let us not be seduced into believing that somehow we will be better if we forget.

0 (25m 52s):
Okay? So number one, no one's forgetting. People get taught about Emmett Till in Florida schools. What she's saying here, which is that these are, it's unnecessary to have debates over America's history, really, since you guys are the ones who pushed the 1619 project. You are the ones who suggest that America's racial history means that today the only solution is quote unquote, racial equity when it comes to government policy, i e reverse racism in American government policy. This is what they're doing. This is, it's, it's super gross. It's really gross. Honestly, find me the American politician of either party today who's like, yeah, I'm a big, I'm standing for Emmett Till's murderers. Like, who are those people? They don't exist, but it doesn't matter because Kamala Harris believes, and she wants you to believe that really down deep Republicans are very much in favor of black people being murdered for no reason at all.

0 (26m 37s):
She did this, by the way, she was saying all of this during the Emmett Till announcement, which is super disgusting. I mean, it really is gross, gross. Here is Joe Biden doing the same exact thing

6 (26m 49s):
At a time when there are those who seek to ban books, bury history. We're making it clear crystal, crystal clear. While darkness and denialism can hide much, they erase nothing. You can hide, but they erase nothing. We can't just choose to learn what we wanna know. We have to learn what we should know,

0 (27m 14s):
A liar. These people are

6 (27m 15s):
Liars. We should know about our country. We should know everything, the good, the bad, the truth of who we are as a nation.

0 (27m 24s):
There's such gaslighting, liars. They're such liars. They're liars, okay? All of this gets taught in Florida schools. Nothing that Ron DeSantis has passed in the state of Florida, sign into law in the state of Florida bars, the teaching of American history. On the contrary, it preserves the teaching of American history by preventing the inculcation of lies into the curriculum. Lies like if you are black, you are inherently victimized in the United States, and if you are white, you are inherently privileged in the United States of America, and that all systems of power in the United States are created for the explicit promotion of white people. That's what critical race theory teaches. That's what they're attempting to ban in the state of Florida, not teaching about the evils of American history or white supremacy. What? Like it's a lie. They're liars, and it's disgusting. It truly is gross because again, there is no disagreement in the United States about the evils of American history when it comes to racism and white supremacy.

0 (28m 10s):
There's no disagreement about that. The only disagreement is that you guys all say that the white supremacy is still there lurking underneath America's surface, and that all of America's key institutions from capitalism to the meritocracy have been infused by that evil racism. And thus, if you oppose the Democratic agenda secretly you are a white supremacist. Secretly you're in league with Emmett Till's murderers. That's the case they're trying to make. Some of them are even more open, a, B, c News's. Mary Bruce actually openly tried to connect Rhonda Ansis to the lynching of Emmett Till.

8 (28m 37s):
Now, the President's announcement, the president who is roughly the same age that till would have been. It comes as we are seeing this controversial and very polarizing debate in this country over the teaching of black history, that move by the Florida Board of Education to teach that some slaves may have benefited from the skills they developed as sparking a firestorm. But Robin, this White House says that monuments like this to till will help to teach the complete story of our nation's history. Robin?

0 (29m 2s):
Yeah. How about Rhonda Sandis and the evils. Meanwhile, M S N B C host Andrea Mitchell, another objective journalism. She comments quote, this is also happening as some states are being accused of chipping away at the teaching of black history, the accurate teaching. Rhonda DeSantis has been accused by the Washington Post editorial board just yesterday of trying to quote whitewash slavery. It's, it's so disgusting. It's so clearly disgusting. And then there's the secondary disgustingness. So Greg Gutfeld is on Fox News doing a show, and he was talking about all of these false accusations with regard to Ron DeSantis. All, all the lies that Kamala Harris and Joe Biden are talking about, about how American history won't be taught. Black history won't be taught in Florida schools anymore, which is a lie. It is not true. It is a lie.

0 (29m 42s):
Okay? So Gutfeld was talking about the part of the curriculum that says that some slaves cultivated skills they could use for their personal benefit after slavery, which is clearly true, and he makes the pretty much unobjectionable points that even in the worst circumstances human beings could possibly be in, they cultivate skills because this is how human beings adapt and survive, and it demonstrates their resiliency. Even in the worst places human beings can be, they cultivate skills that they can then use for the personal benefit afterward. And he makes the comparison to Viktor Frankl writing Man's search for Meeting after the Holocaust, the notion that he was able to cultivate certain spiritual levels through suffering in the Holocaust and, and naturally then the left jumps on that.

0 (30m 22s):
It's just, it's amazing here. Here's Greg Gutfeld.

9 (30m 26s):
Do you think that she read the whole thing and just decided to cherry pick something?

10 (30m 30s):
I, I do think that she read the whole thing, and I think that it's an incredibly complex piece. When you look at 191 passages, you have some good, and, and frankly, I'm just fundamentally uncomfortable with the sentence that blacks benefited at all from this. And I, you know, it made me think as someone, obviously I'm not black, but I'm Jewish. Would someone say about the Holocaust, for instance, that there were some benefits for Jews, right? While they were hanging out in concentration camps, you learned a strong work ethic, right? Maybe you learned a new skill.

11 (31m 1s):
Did you ever read Man's Search for meaning? Vic Frankel talks about how You had to survive in a concentration camp by having skills. You had to be useful. Utility, utility kept you alive, but

10 (31m 12s):
We're also talking about middle schoolers here,

0 (31m 16s):
Okay? Again, what Gutfeld says there is absolutely Unobjectionable as an Orthodox Jew, you know, and thank God, my, my immediate family, our family line was in America since the early 20th century, but the entire extended family was in Europe at the time of Holocaust. So we lost a lot of, you know, distant relations and family relations in Europe during the Holocaust. And of course, I'm deeply ensconced in the Jewish community. So pretty much everybody knows a Holocaust survivor. What he's saying there, which is that the durability and the adaptability of human beings, the resiliency of human beings in terrible circumstances, leads them to cultivate skills that are useful to them in the rest of their lives, even in the worst circumstances, one of the glories of being a human being, that's unobjectionable. So what does the White House do? They immediately call him an antisemite, and now he didn't even bring it up, right?

0 (31m 59s):
Jessica Tarlov brought it up, but wait for the, wait for the, the usual cast of characters to sound off. So Andrew Bates says, what Fox News is allowed to be set on the air yesterday is an obscenity in defending a who, a dangerous extreme lie that insults the memory of millions of Americans who suffer from the evil of enslavement of Fox News told another hor a dangerous and extreme lie that insults the memory of the millions of people who suffered from the evils of the Holocaust. There was nothing good about slavery. There was nothing good about the Holocaust. Full stop. No one said there was anything good about slavery of the Holocaust. They said that resilient human beings sometimes are capable of making the best of their, their horrific situations, which of course is true. That, of course, is true. That's the story of the heroism of the slaves, making the best of one of the world's worst situations in human history.

0 (32m 43s):
Same thing of Holocaust survivors like trying to, trying to survive, trying to cultivate a skillset while undergoing the worst horrors a human being can imagine. But of course, they have to lie. They have to lie. I I, I, first of all, I don't wanna hear this White House talk about anti-Semitism, because this White House is replete with antisemitism. This White House is perfectly willing to roast on a spit. The state of Israel in front of Iran, they're perfectly willing to do it. you know, they, they're perfectly willing to bend over backwards for the likes of Rashida Taleb and Ilhan Omar, it it, them talking about antisemitism. I mean, it's, you wanna talk about ridiculous gaslighting? That would be it. So anyway, the, the, the White House is gonna play the race card because this is what they have to do.

0 (33m 24s):
Meanwhile, on the right side of the aisle, it appears that Donald Trump is cruising toward the nomination.

ZipRecruiter (33m 28s):
We'll talk more about that in just one second. First, if you're hiring, you're probably dealing with economic uncertainty now, more than ever. It's important to hire the right people faster and more efficiently to keep those overall costs down. Thankfully, ZipRecruiter are hiring partner focused on you and your needs from pricing to technology, everything ZipRecruiter does is for you. Right now. You can try them for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. ZipRecruiter smart technology identifies the best matches for your job and lets you invite candidates. You really want to apply to your job before other businesses can snag them. I love how their pricing is actually really, really straightforward. You can stick to your budget, no surprises. Hire the best with the help of a partner, all about you and your business. With ZipRecruiter four outta five employers, you post on ZipRecruiter, get a quality candidate within day one. Just go to this exclusive web address to Try ZipRecruiter for FREE ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Again, that's ZipRecruiter dot com slash At DailyWire, we've been using ZipRecruiter for years to get our great employees. You should do the same, helps you sift through all those resumes. And if you're looking for a job, ZipRecruiter is a great place to go to look for your next job. Go to ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire, try it out for free. ZipRecruiter remains the smartest way to hire. Again, go check them out right now. There's a reason four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter get a quality candidate within the very first day.

10 (34m 33s):
Also, here's a very sad statistic. Marriage rates have now hit an all time low in the United States. More people than ever believe that a marriage certificate is some weird piece of paper. It's an outdated, patriarchal tradition. Others have lied to themselves and they think they don't need a spouse.

0 (34m 45s):
They, they think they'd rather be like a dog mom or something. Well, here's the thing, men and women are both convinced right now they're better off being single. That is a lie. It is not true. Despite What the Left would have you believe marriage is a profound good, professionally, personally, mentally, physically, that's just scratching the surface of the benefits of marriage, and you'll learn all about it in Dennis Prager's new episode of Prager U Master's program, streaming exclusively over a DailyWire plus at Prager's used master's program. Dennis is sharing 40 years worth of hard earned wisdom, exploring all kinds of topics like the consequences of secularism, whether human nature is basically good, the differences between the left and the right. This episode will make couples think differently about marriage. If you're single, this episode will absolutely open your eyes and go to DailyWire plus.com. Become a member watch Prager you masters program today.

0 (35m 25s):
Okay? Meanwhile, the Republican side of the aisle, Donald Trump continues to lead by leaps and bounds the rest of the Republican field in, in terms of the national polling, one of the things that is propping Trump up atop the Republican field is the feeling by Republicans. And polling data shows this, that he actually is the most viable candidate to go up against Joe Biden. That that is not What. the statistics say, the statistics suggest that Ron Des Ansis, for example, would run better than than Trump would against Biden in swing states like Wisconsin, Arizona, Georgia. But there is some national polling that has Trump up against Joe Biden. There's a latest messenger Harris X poll from July 21st through 24th, and it shows Trump up four on Joe Biden. There's a morning consult poll that shows him within two of Joe Biden, there's a Harvard Harris poll that shows him up five on Joe Biden.

0 (36m 5s):
So there's some polling data suggesting that Trump is actually outrunning Biden at this point, and again, in the race for the Republican nomination. Right now, the Republican nomination race has Trump with a 34% lead on average. The latest morning console polls show him at 59%, 16% for DeSantis, 8% for Ramis Swami, 6% for Pence. And meanwhile, there is a, a Harvard Harris poll showing him with a 40 point lead over Ron DeSantis Aman with poll showing him with, again, a 30 point lead, 32 point lead over Ron DeSantis 54 to 22. The big story of the campaign thus far is that no one seems to have broken loose from the rest of the field. Trump is just sticking around 50% and everybody else is engaged in this kind of scrum near to the bottom.

0 (36m 47s):
Now, the, the expectation early on in the race, I think for a lot of people, including me, was that Ron DeSantis was gonna break loose in this race. Right now, he's in the middle of a campaign shakeup. He just had to fire about a third of his staffers. He was spending too much on staff, and so now he's attempting to recapitulate his campaign. I, I would assume at some point that he's going to get aggressive with the media. I thought that he did a good interview with Jake Tapper last week. The, the issue with the rest of the Republican field is that no one else is going to start jumping out from the rest of that Republican field. So maybe that will happen in the future. Right now, that is not happening. DeSantis is gonna have to recapitulate and he's gonna have to relaunch his campaign in fairly short order. Now, that has happened before. To be fair, John McCain was abandoned and left for dead in 2008, in mid 2007, mid 2070 wasn't even charting in polls.

0 (37m 29s):
Rudy Giuliani was leading in all the polls in 2007. Mitt Romney in 2012 was basically the front runner all the way through, but there were people like Jeb Bush who were running really well at this point in the race in 2016. So it's still very early, but things are gonna have to change rather dramatically. There's a reason why the Trump campaign is, is focusing all of his fire on DeSantis. They, they put out a bizarre statement yesterday, the Trump campaign accusing Ron DeSantis of colluding with the Biden D O J, which is super weird. I don't even know what that's supposed to mean. They, they, they literally put out a letter saying, DeSantis and his establishment handlers have resorted to directly parroting the talking points of radical leftists. When Ron Des Sanctimonious was most recently summoned before donors to explain his flailing campaign, his top lieutenants admitted to lighting donor money on fire.

0 (38m 11s):
Though even more telling Atop DeSantis fundraiser confessed their strategy relied on endless political prosecutions of President Trump by radical leftist prosecutors. So now they're claiming that DeSantis is somehow in league with the D O J. I mean, this is really weak stuff. Here's the thing, is that going to translate to a general election for Trump? This is the big question people should be asking themselves. Again, I'd love to see the data supporting the idea that the strongest candidate, not that he's stronger than Biden, maybe he is, maybe he's not. Again, I have doubts, but the, the data that he's the strongest candidate against Biden is somewhat lacking, and that is particularly going to be a problem for him, given the fact that, again, a, a lot of the people who are around Donald Trump are now putting Trump in uncomfortable positions. So today, in a court filing, Rudy Giuliani just admitted that he made false allegations about Georgia election workers and no longer contest the outcome of the Georgia election.

0 (38m 57s):
So remember, it was Reed Giuliani, who's leading up a lot of the election narrative 2020 that Donald Trump actually won in Georgia. He was putting significant pressure on people in Georgia. Now he's admitting that he was making stuff up in Georgia. Is any of that stuff gonna matter in a primary? Absolutely not. Is any of that stuff going to matter in terms of a general election? That's certainly not going to help President Trump. But right now Trump is by far the most durable candidate in the field. He's proved that he has the support of about 45 to 50% of the Republican base, and unless some other Republican changes their strategy and breaks loose, it will be Trump for the nomination. That's at least how it appears right now. Now, Republicans are facing some pretty uphill battles in the 2024 situation overall. According to the Wall Street Journal, new York's highest court is now set to weigh in on a new set of congressional maps in the state.

0 (39m 39s):
A ruling analyst say could position Democrats to pick up as many as five US House districts in the closely held chamber. New York Republicans on Tuesday appealed the most recent ruling in a Democratic lawsuit that seeks to throw out district lines that were in place for the last year's elections and helped the g o p pick up three seats in the Empire State. Democrats said those maps were only meant to be in place for 2022. The New York State Court of Appeals apparently is likely to rule along those lines, and that means that if Republican redistricting in North Carolina and Ohio happens, New York will then re redistrict itself and up presumably hand a bunch of house seats back to Democrats. So it's gonna be a closely held house. These battles are going to be ongoing. The country is split very close to 50 50 on every available line. Okay?

0 (40m 19s):
Meanwhile, the latest in the continuing fallout from me not liking Barbie, apparently, this is just an endless national story, and I'm confused as to why, except I'm not confused. As I mentioned a couple of days ago on the show, the reality is that I stepped upon the idol. You're not supposed to step upon the idol. You're not supposed to mention that Barbie is a bad movie. You're not supposed to mention that radical feminism is radical. Feminism is a complete failure, not supposed to mention any of that, because the idolatry of these movies, of these cultural totems must be complete and you must be made to bow before them. This presumably is why the great intellect over at The View were decrying my specific critique of the Barbie movie. So, as always, I'm perfectly willing to go on The View. Not only am I perfectly willing, I'm perfectly eager to go on The View.

0 (41m 0s):
It has been several years since I've suggested that I come on The View, and yet I'm shocked. I've never received an invite. Now, I know for a fact why that is. I mean, I'm friendly with Megan McCain, who was on the show for years. She routinely asked the producers if I could come on the show, and they routinely said no. I wonder why. Hmm. In any case, Whoopi Goldberg leading light and, and a person who believes that apparently Hitler was not a racist, and Whoopi Goldberg had some views about panning the woke Barbie movie.

12 (41m 29s):
It's a movie about a doll.

13 (41m 35s):
I thought y'all would be happy. She has no genitalia. So there's no sex involved. Ken has no genitalia, so he can't be doing, it's a doll movie. And you know who I, the kids know it's colorful and it's Barbie. They haven't lived through What. the adults have lived through. So when they're seeing this movie, that's not how they're looking at it. The kids are looking at it as a Barbie movie. You guys, I want you all to tell your daughters why you're not taking them to see the Barbie movie.

14 (42m 9s):
I'm so taken by some of these right wing men who have all these thoughts on masculinity. Oh, yeah. Like, somehow the Barbie movie is gonna make them feel emasculated. No caring so much about it is honestly the most emasculating thing I could think about. I think the last guy

15 (42m 22s):
Wasn't that Ben sha Shapiro? Yeah. Because if you're sitting there and you flipped it on a head and it was,

14 (42m 25s):
He looks

13 (42m 26s):
Like he should be in the bar, you

0 (42m 29s):
Oh, i i in, in, in what capacity? Whoopee. That, that's, that's, that's a strange, I look like I should be in the Barbie movie because of my stunning Ryan Gosling. Like, good looks like. What, what are we talking about here? Okay, so just a few comments on this, a few comments on this. Number one, the insane gaslighting by people like Whoopi Goldberg is amazing. So they made Barbie into a cultural moment. It's a cultural moment, and the movie is stacked with politics. Every single review left and right points out the movie is stacked with politics. They play this dumbass game. It's a really ridiculous clown nose on clown nose off game. Well, it, it's so political, it's so important. Everyone should see it. It has such important things to say about the state of modern womanhood. And then we're like, yeah, what it has to say is garbage and stupid and wrong and bad for girls. And then they're like, it's just a movie about a doll.

0 (43m 11s):
It's just a movie about a doll. Why are you so upset about a movie about a doll? I dunno. Why are you so upset that I'm upset about a movie about a doll? Because it's not just a movie about a doll. You idiots. Obviously you're really liars. I mean, you know that it's not a movie about a doll, only it's a movie about men and about women and about feminism and about the patriarchy. you know, who will tell you that? Greta Gerwig, who made the damn thing? you know, who will tell you that? Every member of the media every, including Whoopi Goldberg. So, but this whole routine, oh, well, I don't even know why you're so upset about this. I don't even know why you care. Okay, first of all, the movie's bad. I'm upset. I wasted two months, two, two hours of my life on the movie. But what really is upsetting is the gaslighting is the lying. You don't get to say, look at this super important thing, and then I notice it. I'm like, yeah, I think it's bad. And they're like, it's not even important at all.

0 (43m 52s):
Why are you even noticing it? It's so irritating. Okay, so that's number one. Number two, Alyssa Farrah Griffin. Okay, so I know Alyssa. Okay. Alyssa used to work in Mike Pence's office. The first time I visited the White House, Alyssa was an aide to Mike Pence, and she was a fan of the show. Okay? And Ali, I'm only making this personal because Alyssa decided to make this personal. So let me point out here when we are talking about, you know, emasculation and all the rest, you know, what is kind of emasculating moving from Mike Pence's office over to The View, where you get to be the designated conservative that all of your friends, your pseudo friends dump on every single day, and where you win points of favor and they pat you on the head and give you little Scooby treats if you say the right thing.

0 (44m 32s):
As far as feeling emasculated on a personal level, I just had my fourth kid, man, like, gimme a break. Like, I, I, I, my reproductive success has been assured at this point, folks, I'm not, I'm not particularly concerned about the emasculation charge from Alyssa Farrah Griffin. By the way, again, you guys, I noticed that you spent a lot of your air time on this. So yeah, obviously it's important enough for you to comment on. Here's the overall take. The overall take again, is that for a group of wine moms who are daytime drunk, watching the Barbie movie by themselves crying at America, Ferrera whining about being a woman, and then they go on The View, and then they talk about it, and then you mention the movies back. This is idolatry.

0 (45m 11s):
You, you must never, ever, ever speak ill of the Greta Wigs of the world. You must never speak ill of a movie as important as this. And if you do, then they will pretend that the real story is that why are you even not why? It's a, it's a movie about a doll. By the way, America Fir Barbie speech apparently took two days and 32 50 takes to film, which is incredible 'cause it sucks. I'm just gonna point out it's bad. It's a bad take. It it 30 to 50 takes. We're filming Citizen Kane here. 30 to 50 takes for America Ferrera to give this whiny speech. Apparently Greta Gerwig said that when she gave that speech, everyone on the set was crying. And the men, the women, they were all crying. Yes, only the most self-absorbed people in the world would cry over a speech as pathetic, dull, and, and honestly shallow as as that particular speech.

0 (45m 56s):
And meanwhile, in other news that made you know a lot of headlines yesterday, Bronny James, who's LeBron James' son, and is expected to be, or was expected to be a first round pick in the n b A draft at some point in the very near future, apparently suffered a cardiac arrest. He's since been released from the I C U in stable condition. According to a statement from the U Ss C Galen Center, yesterday while practicing Brian James suffered a cardiac arrest. Medical staff was able to treat Bronny and take him to the hospital. He's now in stable condition, no longer in the I C U. We asked for respect and privacy for the James family. We'll update media when there's more information. LeBron and Savannah wish to publicly send their deepest thanks and appreciation to the U S C Medical and athletic staff for their incredible work and dedication to the safety of their athletes. This of course, led to a, a massive amount of speculation online that perhaps the reason that Bronny James had a cardiac arrest is because of the wild spate of cardiac arrest that have been experienced by young men in the aftermath of the Covid pandemic.

0 (46m 46s):
There's been a lot of suggestion that the vaccinations in particular because they cause a higher rate of myocarditis than the norm, that because of that, that is what has led to things like Brian James. Now we don't have any information about that, and so I'm not fond of speculating on the medical situations of people because it's quite possible that there's a congenital heart defect, right? Long before Covid or vaccines were a thing. People like Reggie Lewis, who played for the Boston Celtics, literally dropped dead of cardiac arrest. He was a star for the Boston Celtics. This sort of stuff has happened for a very long time in the country. The rates are, are much higher. It's unclear just to give you the data, it is unclear whether those rates being higher is entirely due to young people taking the covid vax or whether it is due to young people also actually getting covid because there is a rate of increased myocarditis among young people who get covid as well.

0 (47m 30s):
Now, for the vascular test, vast majority of young people, they're not going to have a cardiac arrest. It is true that the second dose of the vaccine particularly raises the risk of myocarditis for young men in particular, according to a systematic review of the evidence that was released in April of 2023. This is from PubMed. Apparently the highest incidence of myocarditis range from 8.9 to 39 cases per 100,000 persons in studies using four stratifiers, six studies reported in incidents greater than 15 cases per 100,000 persons or doses in males aged 12 to 24 after dose two of an mRNA based vaccine. So there are a lot of questions about the myocarditis effects on young men.

0 (48m 10s):
I I know that there are people who I speak to frequently, Dr. Marty McCarey over Johns Hopkins, who's deeply concerned, and I think we should all be concerned over the rates of myocarditis arising in young men after the taking of the vaccine is also unclear at this point whether What, the sort of differential is just to give you the data. Again, this is not a political point. This is just what data we have available. It is unclear the differential in myocarditis related incidents for young people who have gotten covid versus young people who have gotten the covid vaccine. The evidence seems to show that myocarditis post vaccine is less severe than myocarditis post covid, but it may be that many more people who are actually getting myocarditis are getting it from the vaccine as opposed to covid.

0 (48m 51s):
We just don't have solid numbers on any of that. Apparently. There's a study by Penn State College of Medicine, this came out October of 2022 and found that the risk of developing myocarditis was seven times higher with c ovid 19 infection than with the vaccine. But again, we've seen some mixed evidence on all of this. The only reason I'm pointing this out is because in the same way that I'm not fond of suggesting that every day, every time it's a hot day outside, that is because you drove your car. I'm not fond of jumping to conclusions about Bronny James's VAX status or whether it was the VAX that did this based on Pure speculation. We can wait for it. It may very well have been the vaccine. I don't know. You don't know. Nobody knows except his doctors at this point, we'll find out in short order. And so I'm very much a fan of waiting until we have the evidence to, to determine What the case is.

0 (49m 32s):
Now, does that mean that if you're 18 years old, I'm saying you should get the va? No, I'm not saying that In fact I did not get my kids vaccinated, nor do I think that that would be a wise decision. I I think that basically, unless you are morbidly obese or above the age of 65, the evidence is very dicey on whether you should be taking the vaccine as opposed to just getting a bout of omicron. But with that said, you know, again, I think the wise move in all of these situations and the, the fact is become controversial is kind of crazy, is wait for the medical evidence to arrive as to what exactly happened to Bronny James before engaging in speculation. Okay, meanwhile, over in Israel, the media are blowing up the situation in Israel as though the country's about to collapse. It is not, it is really stupid. And it's people who are taking advantage of the situation in order to exacerbate perceived global weakness in the state of Israel.

0 (50m 17s):
I only comment on this because again, it's being treated as top of news for everyone. It's not top of news for anyone. This is an internal debate in Israel over a fairly small judicial reform measure. Yesterday, for example, there was an attempt by the U T J as I mentioned, the United Torah Judaism, which is a hare party of an ultra orthodox party to push forward an actual bill that would've said that Torah study is equivalent to army service. And the coalition of which u TJ is a part was like, Nope, we're not putting that up because it's bad. We're not doing it. That did not get the sort of coverage that the, that the judicial reform has gotten as quote unquote a divisive factor in Israeli society. This is why, you know, when when you see, for example, the stupidity of Moody's downgrading the debt of of Israel, it's just ridiculous.

0 (51m 0s):
It's really, really stupid. Moody Moody's giving a negative report because, you know, there are people who don't agree with a thing a government did is really foolish. It's also worth noting at this point that the media coverage of, wow, look at that. 10,000 reservists say that they're not gonna show up on a volunteer basis to serve. First of all, if there's war, they're showing up. Number two, there are literally hundreds of thousands of reservists who will show up, but nobody ever pays attention to any of that. So all I'm here to say when it comes to this particular issue is give it time, it will calm down. Just there were massive riots in France and they didn't get this sort of attention. And the riots in France are much more indicative of bleeding, social decay in France than the current conflict in Israel is indicative of some sort of internal collapse. Okay, time for a quick thing I like and then a thing that I hate.

0 (51m 41s):
So things that I like. I will admit that I am laughing about the a Santa Barbara suburb that is very upset about somebody moving in Prince Harry and Meghan Markle. According to the New York Post, when locals in the secluded Santa Barbara, California Enclave of Hope Ranch heard that Prince Harry and Meghan Markle might be keen on leaving nearby Montecito to buy a home in the exclusive suburb. They didn't roll out the welcome mat. A Hope ranch realtor told the post that nine months after the rumors were reported, their office continues to field calls from concerned longtime residents who fear the couple and their security team will disturb the peace in the quiet community where houses go for as much as $22.5 million. People are not happy, that's the word around town. They want them to stay in Montecito and not be drawing that kind of attention up to Hope Ranch. you know, the realtor and Santa Barbara native confirmed to the post.

0 (52m 23s):
So first of all, they all deserve it. All of them deserve each other. All of the rich and wealthy Santa Barbara residents who are very into the ldo, I hope that they enjoy their new neighbors. The we don't want attention. Please, please stop paying us attention South Park characters of Harry and Megan who are quickly running out of things to make them prominent. I know there's been a lot of speculation about the possibility that the couple breaks up. There's been a lot of that sort of page six speculation about that possibility, which they have kids that would be sad. Any divorce involving kids would be really, really sad. It would not be surprising given exactly the course of this marriage and who Meghan Markle has proved herself to be. Unfortunately. Okay, time for a quick thing that I hate.

0 (53m 3s):
So, crime in left-wing areas is now so bad that even c n n has to cover it. So yesterday, cnn, senior national correspondent Kung Law Report on crime in San Francisco Realty retail shops. The report is pretty stunning.

17 (53m 14s):
Richie Greenberg walked into a San Francisco Walgreens when he saw in the frozen food section this

18 (53m 21s):
Chains, heavy chains that went from padlock to padlock on both sides of the doors. And this was bizarre, something I'd never seen before. This is just more icing on the cake. Telling us that rampant crime is, is has become a a regular part of life.

17 (53m 39s):
So typical that in the 30 minutes we were at this Walgreens, we watched three people including this man steal. Did that guy pay? Did that guy pay? He didn't pay.

0 (53m 58s):
Unbelievable. So law said, hit more than a dozen times a day When Thieves tried to clean out ice cream and frozen burritos. Workers grew so frustrated, they resorted to the chains. They were ordered down by corporate because of the negative messaging. But Walgreens isn't the only retailer impact in San Francisco. You have to ask an employee for help at this store. Frozen food is controlled with a cable lock, fake eyelashes locked behind, plexiglass along with lotion and nail polish at another grocery store. $14 bags of coffee under lock and key, amazing stuff from San Francisco. So again, wonderful job, left-wing governance ruining some of America's most beautiful cities. And you know what, you get what you vote for. Alrighty, guys, the rest of the show continues right now. You're not gonna wanna miss it. We'll be jumping into the mailbag. If you're not a member, become a member. Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months for your on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.