FanDuel (0s):
We got another day of NBA action. So it's time for your FanDuel crew to make their betts. You know, the new customers who bet $5 get $150 back in Bonus Betts make every night a watch party only on FanDuel. America's number one sports book, 21 plus in President in Virginia. First online Real Money Wager only ten First deposit required bonus issued is non-controllable Bonus expires seven days after receipts. See full terms at FanDuel com slash sportsbook gambling problem called winning hundred gambler.

1 (31s):
Well, yesterday was a very important day in the 2024 rate So Joe Biden is still really ailing According to the Washington Post. Joe Biden is currently holding private meetings at the White House to reassure his supporters because his poll numbers look so bad, says the Washington Post What President Biden has been holding private lunches at the White House with top donors and other supporters as part of an effort to reassure them about his reelection campaign, including concerns about his age and his energy. According to three people familiar with those meetings. He's held a half dozen meetings in groups ranging from four to eight people since he launched his campaign in April But. a bunch happened right before the holidays that a lot of people who are very much worried about Joe Biden's s reelect efforts, a lot of these meetings are being organized by Jeffrey Katzenberg movie Mogul again, Hollywood and the Democratic Party one.

1 (1m 15s):
And the same The meetings of course are coming because a lot of people are worried that Joe Biden is going to lose. That includes Barack Obama that includes Michelle Obama that includes pretty much everyone. And, you know, things are going poorly when even Jimmy Kimmel is mocking you. So, there was a hands off policy with regard to Barack Obama in the comedy world for literally years. You could not make jokes about Barack Obama because he was the holy one. Blessed be he But when it comes to actually Joe Biden. Even Democrats are looking at Joe Biden and realizing this is a, a man with encroaching senility problems, a person not in control of his own administration. When Jimmy Kimmel is making fun of you in a reelect year, that's a problem if you're a Democrat. Here was Jimmy Kimmel doing just that last night.

2 (1m 56s):
Age is definitely an issue for Joe Biden. He is in desperate need of support from young voters and Grant POTUS is now pulling out all the bells and whistles to try to win them back.

3 (2m 6s):
My fellow Americans we're facing an inflection point in history. Now more than ever, we need young hustlers like you I mean it fam no cap. I'm God, I'm being dead ass here man. Be another Trump presidency won't slap. I know he has Riz, but he's given dictator. He's fascism code. Again, you think I'm mid or cringe. Democracy is a batty and America is mother. I'm Joe Biden and I have no idea what the hell I just said.

3 (2m 47s):
To be honest. I

1 (2m 49s):
Mate, the disconnect between Biden and his own people is extraordinary right now. And Democrats know this, which is why, again, even in the fake ad, it's all about Trump and, well, Chris Matthews back from exile used to be in hardball SC, he's back on Ms. C. It's election year roll that a bell Rumpel looking like he coming the show. He's explaining why Donald Trump can't be president of the United States. The only thing you can say if you're a Democrat at this place is Chris Matthews. Go.

4 (3m 16s):
Important point, you know, I think it's really important that the, the, the conservatives out there, when you defend Donald Trump, you're defending what happened on January 6th. You're defending why he sat there in that little office next to his Oval Office. He sat there doing nothing according to casting Hutchins and arrest. Yeah, they're all talking now and they're more are gonna talk in court. Here's a guy who did nothing.

1 (3m 38s):
It's all January 6th, it's all Trump. The entire Democratic campaign relies on Trump. And so we have this sort of weird situation in which if the Democrats swapped out Joe Biden for anyone else, they would be in much better shape. Meanwhile, if the Republicans by polling data swapped out Donald Trump for anyone else, they too would be in much better polling shape. That is the weird irony of the situation in which we find ourselves. Both parties are fully convinced that there is no way they can lose to that guy. Democrats are like, there is no way we can lose to Donald Trump. So let's run the old guy. After all, he's non-controversial. He's not gonna rip open all of the intersectional gaps in our party. And meanwhile Republicans are like, there's no way we can lose out of that guys.

1 (4m 18s):
So we may as well have the guy who makes us feel really good in Donald Trump on the right side of the aisle. The big question is, is there anyone who's ready to replace Donald Trump on the ticket now by polling data? The answer is clearly no I mean. If you look at the national polling data in the national primaries right now, which again, those are not dispositive. At one point, Rudy Giuliani was the big clubhouse leader in 2008, like fairly close to the actual primaries. But we are now less than one week away from the Iowa caucuses. And in the national polling average Donald Trump has a 50 point lead on the rest of the field in Iowa. The polling suggests that Trump also has a massive lead. Every single poll has Trump up by at least 30 points in Iowa. That is a very, very large gap. New Hampshire a little bit different.

1 (4m 59s):
New Hampshire, you're starting to see Trump lose some momentum in New Hampshire. He still has a lead, but that lead is not much more than the combined force of say, Nikki Haley and Chris Christie. Nikki Haley is running a somewhat close second. I say somewhat close because most polls have her somewhere between 10 and 20 points behind Trump in New Hampshire, but all those polls also have Chris Christie in the race, and Chris Christie is drawing a consistent 12% in the New Hampshire polling. So you could certainly see a situation in which Donald Trump wins Iowa saying Nikki Haley comes in second in Iowa, she gets a boost going into New Hampshire, she wins New Hampshire, and now basically the race comes down to South Carolina. In order for that to happen though, Chris Christie would have to drop outta the race.

1 (5m 39s):
Well, last night Chris Christie did drop out of the race. He suspended his campaign, he announced he was suspending his campaign, which again, credit to Chris Christie, I was under the assumption he wouldn't because there is no bigger egomaniac in American politics than Chris Christie who continues to run for president despite the fact he's not been popular for a full decade. But here was Chris Christie last night, dropping out of the race, suspending his campaign.

5 (6m 2s):
We run campaigns to win. My goal has never been to be just a voice against the hate and the division and the selfishness of what our party has become under Donald Trump. It's also been the win the nomination and defeat Joe Biden and restore our party in our country to a new place of hope and optimism in this country. I've always said that if there came a point in time in this race where I couldn't see a path to accomplishing that goal that I would get out. And it's clear to me tonight that there isn't a path for me to win the nomination, which is why I'm suspending my campaign tonight for President of the United States.

1 (6m 54s):
Okay, so that is the right move because that allows the field to consolidate in New Hampshire. Now, what would've allowed it to consolidate more in New Hampshire obviously is if Christie had done what everybody expected and just endorsed Nikki Haley. But Christie's still too much of an egomaniac for that. So he got caught on a hot mic at the same event, ripping the only other people who stop Donald Trump. So he says that like his top priority is stopping Donald Trump does Chris Christie, and then he gets caught on a hot mic ripping the only other two people in the race with any credible shot of stopping Donald Trump.

5 (7m 21s):
Yeah, that's what you get. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, look, she's spent 68 million so far just on tv, spent 68 million so far, 59 million by DeSantis, and we've spent 12 I mean who's punching above their weight and who's getting a return on their investment, you know, and she's gonna get smoked and you and I both know it. She's not up to this because she hasn't even,

1 (7m 43s):
Okay, that of course, led Donald Trump to go online and talk about how much he actually likes Chris Christie quote, I hear Chris Christie is dropping outta the race today. I might even get to like him again. Anyway, he was just caught on a hot mic making a very truthful statement, she's gonna get smoked. You and I both know it. She's not up to this. So of course, Trump immediately jumping on the person to whom most of Kris Christie's support is presumably going to go, but the field is in fact consolidating. And that led to a debate last night between DeSantis and Nikki Haley. We'll get to more on that in just one second.

Pure Talk (8m 16s):
First, if you're looking to save money this year, but you actually don't wanna sacrifice, you know, quality of life, Pure Talk has your back. Instead of paying your current cell phone provider sixty, seventy, eighty bucks a line, Pure Talk has a limited plan starting just 20 bucks a month, you'll get that same phenomenal coverage you're used to on America's most dependable 5G network for just 20 bucks a month. That's how the average family saves almost $1,000 a year switch on over to a wireless company that chairs your values, a company that is veteran owned, that serves veterans that isn't afraid to invest in shows like this one. What are you waiting for? Switch to Pure Talk in as little as 10 minutes and start saving today. Their US customer service team is waiting to serve you. I've been using Pure Talk myself for years at this point. The coverage is excellent, and again, they're a company that actually likes me and my values. Go to Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro right now. You'll save an additional 50% off your very first month of coverage. That's Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Get connected right now. Again, Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro. Start off the year saving on wireless with a company you can be proud of because they actually like you. Go check 'em out right now at Pure Talk dot com slash Shapiro.

1 (9m 16s):
Now again, the dynamics of the race are very weird because Nikki Haley actually needs DeSantis to stay in the race. That's what's strange about this dynamic. There's this wild theory that somehow if the field consolidates down to Nikki Haley versus Donald Trump that makes Nikki Haley more competitive. That's actually not right, because that's assuming that DeSantis support flows to Nikki Haley rather than to Trump. That's incorrect. The large majority of Rhon DeSantis support will flow to Donald Trump because they think that Trump is harder nosed than Nikki Haley. They see Nikki Haley as fairly squishy. Now the problem with the big debate last night between DeSantis and Haley is of course they're knocking each other. They're, they're bumper car each other.

1 (9m 56s):
DeSantis does need Haley to drop out, but Haley does not need DeSantis to drop out. She needs DeSantis to stay in. And so meanwhile, it, it's sort of a lobster pot over there, a crab pot. They, they're sort of pulling each other down into the pot, and that's what happened in the debate last night. So DeSantis did actually levy some attacks against Donald Trump. Haley really didn't. Most of her attacks were against DeSantis, which again, is strategically weird because if Haley's entire appeal is that she is more politic, more polished in all of the rest, then I'm not sure why knocking DeSantis is gonna get her anywhere. And again, if DeSantis were to drop out, say after Iowa, that actually hurts Nikki Haley pretty badly. She needs him there to soak up 10, 12, 15% of the vote in various states going forward.

1 (10m 42s):
So here's Ron DeSantis going after Donald Trump over the Constitution. Now again, let's just be clear about this. If the primaries were held today, I would vote for Ron DeSantis. I would vote for him. He's the best Florida governor. He is the best governor in America. He is the most consistently conservative person in the race. He is an incredibly competent executive. He knows how to actually run the levers of power and make sure things happen, not just blow VI eight. I would vote for him in a primary. He is way behind, and so is Nikki Haley. They're both way behind. So they were busy mashing each other on CNN Donald. Trump was over on Fox News with Brett Bear sipping a diet Coke and enjoying his life. Anyway, here was Ron DeSantis going after Trump over the Constitution.

6 (11m 22s):
And it's interesting, the oath doesn't say that you're gonna defend the shores of the United States or or gauge in in military conflict. The oath simply says that you'll support and defend the Constitution of the United States as President of the United States. You'll preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. You can't just terminate the Constitution. I mean, I know he does, you know, word vomit from time to time on social media, but obviously I will uphold the Constitution.

1 (11m 48s):
That of course, is exactly true. And then DeSantis turned to Haley and he pointed out the big rap on Haley, which is that she's too, too squishy on a lot of issues. And there are a lot of Republicans who feel that Nikki Haley is too squishy on a lot of issues that she sort of blows with the wind on a variety of issues. So for example, he says, I didn't see you out there fighting the school lockdowns. Now, to be somewhat fair to Nikki Haley, Nikki Haley wasn't in a position of political power in 2020. She'd already left the Trump administration. She was you un ambassador under Trump's. She wouldn't have had a lot to say about that. Anyway, with that said, he is right that the person who led the battle to reopen schools was him.

6 (12m 20s):
You know, governor Haley mentioned, I think correctly the devastating mental health consequences for these school closures. A lot of things that happened during COVID. I never recalled seeing her out there fighting the fight. I was on the front lines on that.

1 (12m 35s):
Okay? Again, he happens to be right about this. He also pointed out that Nikki Haley still has not ruled out running as Donald Trump's vp. So if you're really running for president, then why are you running for vp? Is the case that DeSantis was making to the anchors.

6 (12m 46s):
She won't answer the question about whether she would accept the VP nod, and she gives all these the am mely mouth response. What's wrong with just saying no? I would not under any circumstances say that. And I think the fact that she has not done that is part of the reason Chris had been staying in. And I think that's part of the reason I think he's had those choice words. Do you think

1 (13m 4s):
She would agree to be vice president?

6 (13m 5s):
I do. Under Trump I mean I do, because I think why would you not just say, I would not? I've said I would not. Why not just say that she will not give a yes or no answer to that? Because if she says yes, she loses support from the people that don't like Trump. If she says no, then that forecloses potentially her ability to be on the ticket.

1 (13m 24s):
We'll get to more on that in just one second. First, you

Helix (13m 27s):
know, I've been talking about my Helix mattress for years. I've had that Helix mattress around almost a decade at this point. Basically, it's the only thing that keeps me alive because I need my sleep and Helix makes me sleep. It's that simple. Helix is the gift that keeps on giving every night when I climb into bed, I'm reminded how awesome Helix is because I took their sleep quiz and that sleep quiz matched me to a mattress that actually matches me. Helix is now introducing their newest, most high-end collection Helix Elite, Helix Elite harnesses years of extensive mattress expertise to offer a truly elevated sleep experience. That Helix Elite Collection includes six different mattress models, each tailored for specific sleep positions and firmness preferences. Head on over to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. Check out the new collection today. If you're nervous about buying a mattress online, well you don't have to be because Helix again has that sleep quiz and it'll match it, your body type and sleep preferences to that perfect mattress. Why would you buy a mattress made for someone else? Go check them out right now. Go to Helix sleep.com/ Ben. Take that two minute sleep quiz. You'll find the perfect mattress for your body and sleep type. The mattress comes directly to your doorstep for free. Plus Helix has that 10 year warranty. You get to try it out for a hundred nights risk free. They'll pick it up for you if you don't love it, but indeed, you will. Helix is offering 25% off all mattress orders plus two free pillows for our listeners right now. Start the year off right. Check them out at Helix sleep.com/ Ben with Helix. Better sleep starts right now.

1 (14m 41s):
Okay, meanwhile, Nikki Haley was going after DeSantis, but not really on a good basis. So she kept saying over and over that people should visit DeSantis lies.com. It was very annoying. She said it maybe a dozen times in the first hour of the debate to the point where it just became a meme. Many of her attacks were either sort of bad spirited or just false. So number one bad spirited is she accuses DeSantis of spending an awful lot of money on the campaign and not doing very well. I mean that's true. Also, it's sort of irrelevant. Like what, what, what does that have to do with anything? Like if he had spent a lot of money on the campaign and he had been doing amazing in the polls, would she not be attacking him? It's a strange line of attack here.

7 (15m 21s):
Don't go and lie to the American people to make them think we can't do this. You turn around and raise the debt limit. You're the one that's talked about, look at what you did to Florida. But think about the fact that he's talking about where's this money gonna come from you? The best way to tell about a candidate is to see how they've run a, their campaign. He has blown through $150 million. I don't even know how you do that through his campaign. He has nothing to show for it. He spent more money on private planes than he has on commercials trying to get Iowans to vote for him. If you can't manage a campaign, how are you gonna manage a country?

1 (15m 57s):
Okay, that, that, that is an incredibly stupid argument. I'm just gonna put that out there. It's a dumb argument. Donald Trump ran the most lackluster ridiculous campaign in 2016, and then he won I mean tru Truly, he spent almost no money. He did almost no on the ground work, and then he won. So that's really not correct. Also, DeSantis has spent an awful lot of time on the ground in Iowa more than Nikki. Haley has, for example, Haley, then bas DeSantis over Israel. Again, this is, this is just a wrong attack. The the notion that Ron DeSantis is in any way weak on Israel is an absurdity. DeSantis is by far the most pro-Israel governor in America. By far. It is not closed, but here is Haley going after him on this.

7 (16m 34s):
But it's really rich that Ron is gonna act like he suddenly cares for Israel. When he brought the person to Iowa, that's the most anti-Israel Republican in the state, the person that went and voted against Israel's right to exist in Congress, the person that voted with the squad against antisemitism on college campuses. Thank you governor. And you brought that person to thank you, governor, to Iowa to go and and campaign with you. Governor, that's your friends governor.

8 (16m 58s):
Governor. She's obviously referring to Congressman Tom Massey from Kentucky.

6 (17m 2s):
I mean that's just cheap, cheap garbage. But here's the thing. When, when that, when the, when the attacks happened against Israel, it's, I knew it was gonna be a big deal for Florida. We have one of the largest Israeli male American populations in the country. And we've been a, a haven for Orthodox Jews in particular since I've been Governor And. you know what? Biden wasn't helping Americans get out of the war zone. These are people that were stranded. So I did an executive order, we scrambled planes and we rescued over 700 Americans from Israel and brought 'em back safely to the state of Florida. You gotta step up and you gotta lead when things like this are happening

1 (17m 34s):
Again, that that is a win for DeSantis. Now, does anyone really win coming out of this particular debate? The answer is no. Trump listens on the stage. Trump was busily over on Fox news answering questions from bet bear. And what's what's been clear here is that Trump is actually pivoting to the general election at this point. Trump is no longer fighting in the primaries. Now that doesn't mean that he can stop himself from getting snippy with the other candidates, right? He, he just tells lies about DeSantis. He does. He, he tells lies about his opponents on a regular basis. That that is something that Donald Trump does. And to be frank, that is part of the charm that a lot of Trump supporters feel about Trump because they are so cynical about politics. Trump supporters for a lot of good reasons that they believe that. So long as the person they are backing is willing to throw everything up to and including rubber hammers, kitchen sinks, chainsaws, alligators, add an opponent, it doesn't matter if it's justified or unjustified.

1 (18m 23s):
They want the person who is simply unpredictable, willing to do anything. And that's what they see in Trump. So the rest of the field is like, well that attack is untrue and truth is a standard. But a lot of Trump supports like truth is not the standard. Winning is the standard. And if winning takes being mean and saying things that are not true, well, I guess that I'm happy that Trump is doing that sort of stuff. That's the actual logic that applies as part of this campaign. So for example, Donald Trump yesterday suggested that Ron DeSantis shut down the state of Florida. This of course is not true. Okay? This is just a joke. Everyone knows that Ron DeSantis, after the very early weeks of the pandemic worked extremely hard to open up the state of Florida. Meanwhile, he and Brian Kemp and many other governors were being chided by Donald Trump, who was then president of the United States for reopening too soon.

1 (19m 8s):
So Trump is just rewriting history here. It's not true and it's morally bad to lie, okay? It is morally bad to lie, but is that gonna hurt him politically in any way? Hasn't so far.

9 (19m 18s):
I own a small business and time is money. Would you ever allow a shutdown in the future?

10 (19m 26s):
A shutdown in terms of Covid? Yeah. Or a shutdown in terms of budget? Because you know, they're talking about a budget shutdown right now. But you're talking about a Covid shutdown, correct? No, I wouldn't and I never did. I let the governors make their decisions and some of 'em, like from South Carolina, you know, Henry McMaster and frankly North Dakota, a few of 'em, Tennessee, they didn't shut down at all. Florida did shut down, run to Sanctus, shut down, or as he's known, run to sanctimonious, he, he shut his state down very violently actually and shut the highways down, the roads down. But we had, I'm a federalist in a sense, because that's the federalist way.

10 (20m 6s):
No, I didn't actually have a shutdown despite the fact that some people wanted to and some people didn't want to. But we had some great governors and the governors that did the best job were Republican governors and they were the ones that didn't shut down

1 (20m 19s):
By the Way. He was ripping many of those Republican governors at the time. He sort of sideswipes at DeSantis, obviously poorly motivated. He still thinks that DeSantis could do him some damage in Iowa. But is he deeply worried about either DeSantis or Haley at this point? I mean by the polling numbers. The answer is, is no. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

Tax Network USA (20m 40s):
First, are you struggling with back taxes? Do you have unfiled returns this year? The IRS is now escalating collections by adding 20,000 new agents in these challenging times, your best defense use tax network USA. With over 14 years of experience tax network, USA has saved their clients over a billion dollars in back taxes. They specialize in negotiating with the IRS. They aim to reduce your debt significantly. Tax Network USA doesn't just negotiate. They protect your assets from IRS seizures. They manage your yearly returns for ongoing compliance. Importantly, they're licensed to help you with all state tax issues regardless of where you live in the United States. Seize control of your financial future. Now, don't let those tax issues overpower you. They can ruin your life. Instead, fix it. Contact tax network USA. For immediate relief and expert guidance, call 1 802 4 5 6,000 or visit tn USA dot com slash Shapiro. Turn to Tax Network USA. Find your path to financial peace of mind. Get the IRS off your back. Fix that tax problem right now. That's tn USA dot com slash Shapiro or 1 802 4 5 6,000.

1 (21m 42s):
Okay, so he's on with with Brett Bearer last night. And again, Donald Trump has shifted to the general election. He's already talking general election talk. So it was kind of fascinating to watch him work because again, this campaign is very likely at this point, statistically speaking, to come down to Donald Trump versus Joe Biden. So Donald Trump was asked by Brett Bearer about political violence. Donald Trump had suggested that if, for example, he ends up being jailed after being prosecuted, that that will lead to political vi to, to bedlam is the word that he used. Bair asks him about that and Trump cleans it up.

10 (22m 12s):
Can you say tonight that political violence is never acceptable? Well, of course that's right. And of course I'm the one that had very little of it. Take a look at wars again. I didn't start, I wasn't involved in wars. We beat the hell out of isis. We won a hundred percent. We brought our troops back home. Look at, look at the violence that we've had. Look at the violence we have recently, right? But when you say bedlam, what do you mean? I think bedlam, I think you look at Joe Biden, it's bedlam. You have a man who can't lead. You have a man who can't find his way off a stage after he makes a speech that lasts for about two minutes. No, I think Bedlam is Joe Biden. I think that he's using this. This is just a political ploy.

10 (22m 53s):
Trump is a dictator. He wants to be a dictator.

1 (22m 57s):
Okay? Again, Trump doing cleanup for the general and honestly, not a bad answer. Meanwhile, Trump was also asked about being a dictator, and he had an answer for that one too. He says like, this is silly.

10 (23m 12s):
I did a show. Sean Hannity, did you ever hear of him? He is a very nice man. And he said, essentially, you're not gonna be a dictator, are you? Tell me, I think he was trying to give me a nicer question that maybe you guys were, he meant it very well. I said, I'm gonna be a dictator for one day. We're gonna do two things. The border, we're gonna make it so tight. You can't get in unless you come in legally. And the other is energy. We're gonna drill, baby drill after that. I'm not gonna be a dictator after that. I'm not gonna be a dictator.

1 (23m 43s):
Okay? So what he's saying there, he's using the dictator language and he's slipping the dictator language into, I'm gonna do some executive orders, which by the Way is not being a dictator. And of course the media ran with that and Joe Biden ran with that. Do most people think that Donald Trump is going to be like a Hitlerian Mussolini esque dictator in the United States? Very hard to see how that line plays for Joe Biden. Donald Trump was also asked about these stories, these late breaking stories that been put out by the left-Wing press about how a lot of foreign dignitaries stayed at Trump hotels. And they were considering this a form of, of indirect bribery. Here was Trump answering that question.

11 (24m 17s):
Documents that say that nearly $8 million in payments to your businesses from foreign governments, China included Saudi Arabia while you were in office. They say Article one of the Constitution says, you can't accept money from foreign governments while president, would you pledge to divest from your business in a second term as other presidents have done. So I, that's what they're, that's what they're reporting.

10 (24m 36s):
I own hotels all over the, I don't get free money. Somebody rents a hotel room, et cetera, et cetera. Much money I gave back, in fact, I didn't have to do it. You know, George Washington was a very rich man. People don't know that in his essentially White House, which wasn't built, but they had an office, he had a business desk and he had a country desk right next to each other. You're allowed to do that. I didn't do it. I put everything in trust. And if I have a hotel and somebody comes in from China, that's a small amount of money. And it sounds like a lot of money. That's a small, but I was doing services for that. People were staying in these massive hotels, these beautiful hotels. 'cause I have the best hotels, I have the best clubs, I have the best clubs, I have the, I have great stuff.

10 (25m 18s):
And they stay there and they pay. I don't get $8 million for doing nothing like Hunter. I don't get, I don't get $500,000. I don't get $500,000 for doing a painting. It's not a bad idea. I guess if you can get away with it,

1 (25m 36s):
And this is where Biden is gonna be vulnerable. He's going to be vulnerable. Like all these attacks on Trump, I don't think that they are going to hunt. Meanwhile, in terms of the actual policy, Trump, as I say, he's pivoted toward the general. So on abortion, he understands that the abortion issue has not been a winner for Republicans on the federal level. The abortion issue, I mean, listen, I'm his pro-life as it gets. The reality is that by polling data, the American people broad writ, and again, it's a state by state issue. Now thanks to the overturning of role versus Wade, which is correct and good in certain states, like the state of Florida, you're get a heartbeat bill in certain states like New York, you're gonna get abortion until you're 83 years old. And that's just the way that it is going to work in the United States under Roe versus Wade to my great consternation, I wish it weren't the case.

1 (26m 18s):
I think that every life deserves protection. Trump is asked about this. He understands innately that if he says anything that is too pro-life, it's gonna be used against him in a presidential election. And because he's so popular with the Republican base, he understands, he can get away with saying things that are not fully pro-life. A primary is usually where you're able to push the candidate to the right Trump, because he's so far out in front has the ability to not be pushed to the right on issues where he doesn't want to be pushed to the right, again, to my consternation as a pro-lifer. But that is the politics of the situation. Here's Trump playing those politics.

12 (26m 50s):
I'd like for you to reassure me that you can protect all life, every person's right to life without compromise.

10 (26m 58s):
So that's a great question. I appreciate it too. You wouldn't be asking that question even talking about the issue because for 54 years they were trying to get Roe v. Wade terminated and I did it and I'm proud to have done it. They wanted to get it back, right? You wouldn't be have that, there would be no question. Nobody else was gonna get that. We celebrate that. Yeah, and we did it and we did something that was a miracle. When I walked onto the stage today, a gentleman in the back probably works for Fox. Nice guy said, sir, I'd like to thank you. I said, for what? He said, you saved 2 million lives in the last three years. You saved 2 million lives. And I said, thank you very much. I knew exactly what he meant.

10 (27m 37s):
2 million lives, and nobody's done more in that regard than me. Now I happen to be, for the exceptions like Ronald Reagan with the life of the mother, Rape, incest I have. I just have to be there. I feel, I think probably 78% or so, Paul, about 78%, it was Ronald Reagan. He was for it. I was for it,

1 (28m 1s):
Okay. Then he turned and he swiveled and he hit DeSantis for being too pro-life. Again, this is Trump positioning himself for the general and trying to take the abortion issue off the table. Not my cup of tea. It isn't stupid politics. That is true. Also, again, the, the, the good thing that Trump has going for him in having consolidated so much of the Republican base at this point is the fact that politically speaking, he can already moderate early on, he can moderate. And Joe Biden is abandoning the moderates in his own party. Joe Biden has swiveled all the way to his left and he is opening up this giant space in the sense of American politics for Trump to simply walk into, which is kind of amazing. That's particularly true on the immigration issue. So again, Trump's record on immigration is much better than Joe Biden because Joe Biden has the worst record on illegal immigration in American history.

1 (28m 45s):
It doesn mean Trump's record is perfect. It certainly is not. The first couple years of his administration, for example, Donald Trump did not actually have remain in Mexico policy. For example, the first couple years of his administration, he had not given ice the ability to do serious levels of deportation. He's now pledging, there will be mass deportations again. Do I think that's actually going to happen under Donald Trump? I have serious doubts, but that is the pledge he's making.

10 (29m 6s):
What's your question for the former president? Okay,

13 (29m 8s):
You've said that you can take care of the border in 24 hours after taking office. How will you gather the several millions that have already entered our country illegally and returned them to their country of origin?

10 (29m 23s):
Great question. It's not sustainable for our country. We have millions and millions of people here. It is not sustainable. Did you see in New York City where it getting the regular students out and they're putting migrants in their place, we are going to have the largest deportation effort in the history of our country. We're bringing everybody back to where they came from. We have no choice.

1 (29m 49s):
Okay. Do I think he's actually going to do that? Probably not. But it's definitely a good talking point against Joe Biden by the Way. How many legal immigrants are actually in the United States right now? According to Yale and MIT? There's a study from Yale and MIT back in 2018, which is well before any of this is now 2024. Then they said there were 22 million illegal immigrants in the United States. If there were 22 million in 2018 over the subsequent six years, you would imagine that you're talking another five, six, 7 million illegal immigrants. You're talking about close to 30 million illegal immigrants in the country at this point. All of that is a weakness of Joe Biden's. There are a lot of drags on Joe Biden. One of the big drags on Joe Biden is again, that when it comes to many of the personal qualities that Joe Biden is attacking in Donald Trump, he holds many of those same personal qualities from the overuse of executive orders to his accusations that Donald Trump is corrupt.

1 (30m 38s):
But the reality is that a lot of people in the United States perceive Joe Biden as corrupt because the Biden family has used Joe Biden's name to traffic for literally 30 years in dirty money. So yesterday that all broke into the open. Now again, I think what's going on in Congress right now, I think Congress is a clown show. I think our legislative branch has become an absolute clown show that gets almost nothing done. What they do get done is generally bad. There are a bunch of reasons for that. There's an excellent book out called Why Congress, and that that book sort of explains the transition of Congress from a place where deals got done behind closed doors to a place where no deals got done at all. And instead, what you end up with is a lot of posturing that posturing broke out yesterday on the Hill. I know there are a lot of Republicans who are very excited about people yelling at Hunter Biden.

1 (31m 20s):
I know there are a lot of Democrats who are very excited about Hunter Biden showing up on Capitol Hill. Can I just point out that we have a country that has serious crises to face and this is all a waste of time and garbage. Not the focus in on Hunter Biden and his relationship with Joe, but all these kind of fireworks where people then send off fundraising emails. Let's just acknowledge that our legislative branch is filled with people who do not want to legislate, have no interest in getting anything done, and are there to eventually get a podcast or some sort of cable news show. That's what's happening on Capitol Hill right now. Like there's serious things that should be happening, say negotiation over the budget for this year, but nobody's paying attention to that. Instead, they're paying attention to the stupidity of Hunter Biden showing up on Capitol Hill as the house GOP was voting for contempt charges.

1 (32m 2s):
So yesterday, two house committees, according to the New York Times, voted along party lines to hold Hunter Biden in contempt of Congress because he refused to testify behind closed doors. There's a 23 to 14 vote by the Judiciary Committee and a 25 to 21 vote by the oversight committee. Hunter Biden showed up there to make the point that he wanted to testify in open committee not behind closed doors. And here's what it looked like When Hunter decided to show up unannounced, I mean it was, it was one of the most shocking things since he was snorting coke off a hooker's ass.

14 (32m 32s):
We see Hunter Biden appearing at the Capitol just walking through the door. It looks like he's surrounded with his secret service team there and, and other members of his entourage. But he is officially at the Capitol. As these hearings get underway, we're looking at live images right now as he goes through, it appears the, the medical, the metal detector or nearby the metal detectors. And yeah, we presumably expect him to enter at least one of these committee rooms because again, this is before the oversight committee also action happening in the Judiciary Committee. We're just gonna follow these cameras and Hunter Biden and see where he's going to head, what's going to happen next.

14 (33m 16s):
Again, he wasn't expected to show up for these hearings from the sense of he wasn't called by the people holding

1 (33m 23s):
These hearings. There are two stories here. One is, is this good for Joe Biden? One is, is this good for Joe Biden? The answer's no. Anytime we're talking about Hunter, it's bad for Joe. That's just the reality. And then there is question number two, what does any of this mean and what it really means that Congress is a complete sideshow at this point. Again, serious things are happening in the country. In just one second, I wanna get to how much of a sideshow Congress is. They're a waste of space. They're a waste of time. That is not an excuse for executive orders by the Way. That is to say that Congress should be clawing back its own authority from the Executive Branch And, you know, be doing things from time to time, but they're not focused on the things that matter. Instead, they're focused on the camera time. We'll get to more on that in a second.

Daily Wire (34m 2s):
First, The Daily Wire is on the lookout for a dynamic individual to join our team as a talent and brand development executive. As the driving force behind our personalities management and expansion, you will be at the forefront of shaping the strategic direction of our talents brands from overseeing day-to-Day operations, to crafting innovative strategies for brand expansion. This role is pivotal in maximizing our brand's business and revenue goals. Don't miss out on this awesome opportunity to do brilliant work that matters every single day. Join us in shaping the future of conservative media as our talent and brand development executive. If you're interested in joining our team, visit DailyWire dot com slash Careers. That's DailyWire dot com slash Careers today.

1 (34m 38s):
Okay, meanwhile, and so Hunter Biden shows up on the hill. The goal of him showing up on the hill is to try to demonstrate that Republicans will not allow him to testify openly. They wanted to testify behind closed doors. Originally, the committee had said he could pick to testify behind closed doors or openly, and then they said, we want him to do both. We wanna testify behind closed doors in order to testify openly. Now, realistically, you really want people to testify behind closed doors because otherwise you end up with the grandstanding. So we got the worst of both worlds. No testimony and grandstanding yesterday. We got it from both sides of the aisle. So Nancy Mace, who when she's not wearing a scarlet a for some odd reason to Congress is grandstanding on other topics. Like she's one of the people who voted Kevin McCarthy out so that we could have Mike Johnson.

1 (35m 20s):
I like Mike Johnson, but he's about to pass a budget bill that's significantly worse than anything that McCarthy was gonna pass last year. Nancy Mace spent her time ripping Hunter Biden yesterday. Again, this is the kind of stuff that gets sent out in fundraising emails and achieves absolutely nothing.

14 (35m 36s):
First of all, my

15 (35m 37s):
First question is, who bribed Hunter Biden to be here today? That's my first question. Second question. You are the epitome of white privilege coming into the oversight committee, spitting in our face, ignoring a Congressional subpoena to be deposed. What are you afraid of? You have no balls to come up here. And

1 (35m 56s):
Mr. Chairman point of inquiry,

15 (35m 58s):
Mr. Chairman, I think that that Hunter Biden should be arrested right here, right now and go straight to jail. Our nation is founded on the rule of law. Come on, come on. And the premise come on that the law applies equally to everyone no matter what your last

16 (36m 12s):
Point of

15 (36m 13s):
Order, Mr. Chairman.

1 (36m 15s):
Yeah. First of all, republicans should stop accusing people of being beneficiaries of white privilege is just a general rule because the real privilege that Hunter Biden has is not that he's white, it's that he's Joe Biden's son. All you end up doing when you say the white privilege stuff is opening the door to adults like a OC. Again, the amount of grandstanding, he's just insane. Here's a OC. Now grand standing on the white privilege point. Here we go

16 (36m 35s):
Quickly, that, that moment about privilege and, and all of this that we're seeing here, it was very beautiful speech by the gentle lady who as she mentioned was helped lead on the majority, the now majority side, the Civil Rights and Civil Liberties subcommittee. But I think it's so exemplary of the point that she also oversaw the elimination of the Civil Rights subcommittee on this committee, which really kind of gives the whole game away. We show up, we give speeches, we give flowery words, but at the end of the day, participate in the structural erosion of the rights and representation of people that, that are marginalized women, people of color, people that just need to see their due process and civil liberties protected in this country.

1 (37m 21s):
Oh, Congress. Oh, Congress. How's it possible that Congress gets worse with each and every passing year? Then Hunter Biden stormed outta the room as MTG Marjorie Taylor Green was yelling at him. This is all great for our public by the Way. This is all just wonderful. I I I'm so glad that we can do all this on camera And. everybody can get their minute of FaceTime. It's just, it's great.

17 (37m 39s):
Thank you Mr. Chairman. Excuse me. Hunter, apparently you're afraid of my work. Oh,

1 (37m 50s):
It's like a WWE mad.

17 (37m 51s):
I like to reclaim my time, Mr. Chairman, that

1 (37m 54s):
The Undertaker's Music

15 (37m 56s):
Order,

17 (37m 57s):
Wow, that's too bad.

15 (38m 0s):
Chair

18 (38m 1s):
Recognizes this screen from

15 (38m 2s):
Torture.

17 (38m 3s):
I think it's clear and obvious for everyone watching this hearing today that Hunter Biden is terrified of strong conservative Republican women because he can't even face my words as I was about to speak to him. What a coward.

1 (38m 19s):
It's all kayfabe. It's all kayfabe, all congresses at this point is a waste of space and kfab. It's unbelievable. And again, I'm not ripping on Marjorie Taylor Green particularly, or Nancy Mace particularly. It's the Democrats too. It's everyone. It's everyone. What do you guys do for a living? I'm just wondering, like at some point, would you do something useful? I know that you like to say things into camera and that's wonderful. I mean I do it for a living, but you're not supposed to do it for a living. You're an elected official on the public dime. So at a certain point, maybe you could actually, you know, go pass some legislation or hold someone actually accountable. Maybe you could do that. Meanwhile, on the left side of the aisle, you got people like Jared Moskowitz doing the same thing. Jared Moskowitz combated the Hunter Biden debacle by holding up a photo of Donald Trump and Jeffrey Epstein.

1 (39m 1s):
This is where we are guys. This is our Congress. Aren't you proud?

19 (39m 5s):
The gentle lady from Georgia I know is such an advocate for women's rights, as she mentioned and is so concerned a a about grooming. And apparently we, we don't have any standards here anymore. Again, i I just want to remind, remind my colleagues, because you know, I I don't want them to forget about hypocrisy, okay? I don't want to forget

1 (39m 31s):
About it's all clown show. It's a picture he's holding up Donald Trump of Jeffrey Epstein and Donald Trump

19 (39m 35s):
Epstein. And when he was asked, he said, you know, Jeffrey likes him young. Well how did the president know that? How did he know? Oh my gosh, that Jeffrey Epstein likes him young perhaps

1 (39m 45s):
And there's a to leave laughing in the background as she thinks about the joys of you're so kamas, it's just everyone in, everyone in Congress the clown ever. Ugh. I've said the word clown so many times that it's basically turned into a circus here but not remotely the circus, the Congress actually is. Now again, all this demonstrates is that we have an irresponsible political class, a deeply irresponsible political CL class and a broken Congressional system. And again, it is largely broken because the polarization of the parties makes it so no conversation actually takes place between the parties. The end of politics is to eventually get out of politics and then go make money elsewhere. So many members of Congress are getting rich after they leave Congress. Something needs to be done about the political system of the legislature because it is full scale, full stop disaster area.

1 (40m 31s):
That is takeaway number one. Takeaway number two is Hunter. Biden's really bad for Joe Biden when it comes to the 2024 race. Hunter is a nightmare for Joe Biden because the more we're talking about Hunter, you know who we haven't mentioned for quite a while here is Donald Trump's presidential campaign. Hunter went out to the press afterward and the press asked him like, why was it that your father was being called in the middle of your business meetings? And here is his really bad answer

20 (40m 53s):
Mr. Biden, why did you put your dad on speakerphone with your business partners if he had no involvement in your business? You have a dad, does he call you? Yes, he answered the phone, yes. Okay, but why did you need to talk to him during business meetings if he had nothing to do with your business?

1 (41m 10s):
Also the call went the other way. It was from Hunter Biden to his dad. You know what I don't do during business meetings generally call my father. I dunno about you. If you're in the middle of like a big multimillion dollar business meetings, you just be like, you know, lemme get my dad on the phone for no reason. Just to say hi and see how the weather is. Is it like a thing you do regularly? Meanwhile, the Democrats are forced to defend Hunter in order to defend Joe. So James Clyburn, who of course is a big Biden backer in 2020, he's now saying that Hunter showing up to Congress shows just what a great father Joe is. This is really the angle they're gonna take. It is not going to be awesome guys.

21 (41m 42s):
One, would you have advised Hunter Biden to appear at today's hearing? How big of a distraction, a liability is he to the President's reelection bid?

22 (41m 52s):
Well, I think it is a distraction, but I don't think it's a liability. I think that all this is gonna do is demonstrate what a good father Joe Biden is. We all, maybe not all good luck, but I have children and I'm concerned about them and I want to be a good father to them. And I'm not gonna let any office I hold get in the way of being a good father.

1 (42m 16s):
Okay? If that is the final Democratic pitch on Hunter Biden, that is not gonna play. That is not gonna play. So one of the things by the Way that has made our presidential elections so important is the fact that Congress is a bleep show. If Congress would not a leap show, most of policy would be getting done in Congress and the President would be there with the veto pen and that's how the process was originally supposed to work. That's not the way the, that's not the way anything works anymore because Congress has basically devolved into an absolute goat rodeo. It, it's, it's ridiculous. Well meanwhile the Republicans in another, I think semi useless act, they're trying to impeach the Secretary of Homeland Security. Now that's fine, you can get rid of him. I mean Alejandro Mayorca is a disgrace to his job.

1 (42m 58s):
There is no question about that. And he has completely underscored the failure of the Biden administration to actually abide by the law. Getting rid of Mayorca is not actually gonna solve the problem. You have to get rid of Joe Biden in order to solve the problem. You know what may be helpful here is a useful congress, a useful Congress that passes, you know, border legislation. That might be the thing now, can't blame the house for this. Republicans in the House have in fact passed HR two, which is quite a good bill. It's Republicans in the Senate who have been a little more wishy-washy on that particular issue. Suffice it to say one of the things that happened because of the Hunter Biden hearing is that the Mayorca stuff got blown off the front pages. If one of the purposes of hearings is to put public focus on an issue, you actually do want the public focus more on Mayorca and the border than you do on Nancy Mayes and MTG and a OC and Jared Moskowitz's grandstanding about Hunter Biden.

1 (43m 44s):
Frankly, I think that may be one of the reasons why Hunter Biden showed up yesterday is because politically speaking, if you're a Democrat, you would actually rather have people talking about Hunter Biden than talking about the disaster area at the border. And according to Representative Mark Green, the DHS Chief Mayorkas has imported 5 million illegal immigrants into the United States by the Way. I think that's an underestimate, I think it's actually higher than that at this point. 'cause it seems like by the stats that we saw yesterday, just in the last year alone, in, in 2023, 3 million illegal immigrants entered the country at a minimum. So it's probably higher than even that representative Mark Green of Tennessee.

1 (44m 26s):
He points out this is an intentional crisis being driven by the Biden administration. He's correct about this.

23 (44m 31s):
All of these excuses have long predated Secretary Mayor's tenure, and yet we've never experienced a crisis like this as even the New York Times admits, and I quote, push factors don't explain the entire surge. And maybe not even most of it. There have been no recent wars in Latin America and the region's poverty rate has been flat end quote, the New York Times. I'll also note that two of the 16 cities in the world with the highest murder rates are right here in the United States. Now this crisis has been intentional. Secretary Mayorca was made aware of testimony given by President Biden's, attorney General Merrick Garland, where the AG admitted the current policies are being exploited by the cartels.

23 (45m 15s):
Yet Secretary Mayorkas turns around and implements additional policies to expand the catch and release measures, empowering the cartels and killing Americans.

1 (45m 26s):
And he's totally right about all of this. Meanwhile, Democrats are like, you can't get rid of Mayor 'cause that's our overall policy. You gonna fire him for implementing our overall policy. And he is about half right. Everyone who's involved in this overall policy should be fired. Here is Democratic representative Benny Thompson trying to make the case that he can't get rid of Mayorca just for putting in place. Joe Biden's preferred policy.

25 (45m 47s):
The truth is securing the border isn't really the Republican's top concern. If it was, they'd provide the people with boots on the ground at the border what they need to get the job done. Republicans would rather exploit a challenging policy issue for their own preceded political gain. Republicans disagree with the Biden administration's border and immigration policies. They're angry that this administration won't take babies from their moms or put kids in cages like the last administration. You cannot impeach a cabinet secretary because you don't like the President's policies.

1 (46m 32s):
I mean you, you can technically do that. Now the reality is what you should do is actually impeach the president or get rid of the president, impeaching the president. At this point, Democratic tenant ain't gonna happen. But the American people do have the ability to get rid of the president in the next general election and they should absolutely do that Again. The Democratic policy here is an open border policy. There's just no question about that. Democratic Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut. He, he actually says that they do not want to scale back Joe Biden's ability to simply parole illegal immigrants into the general population.

24 (47m 5s):
I think we are interested as Democrats in providing the administration with tools that will help better manage the border. We are not interested in taking away from the administration tools that they use today to help better manage the border. And so when we talk about this topic of parole, it is very important to understand that it is used today as a way that the administration is able to better manage the flow in a planful way of individuals to the border

1 (47m 47s):
Can better manage the flow, means let everybody in. That's the actual Biden administration policy. But again, all of this got obscured yesterday because of the Hunter Biden shenanigans. That's all. That's all that happened in reality. And meanwhile, the controversy continues to swirl around the Biden administration's failure to fire the Defense Secretary for going completely AWOL for a week. Elise de Fannick, representative from New York, she says that it's about time for Lloyd Austin to resign. Of course she's correct.

26 (48m 12s):
I'm honored to serve as the House Republican Conference chair. And most importantly, I represent my district every single day. And look at the scandal right now with the Secretary of Defense. I represent thousands of troops from Fort Drum, the 10th Mountain Division, who are deployed to the Middle East right now. It is unacceptable that you have a Secretary of Defense who is not transparent with the White House. So I'm looking forward to being active on that issue to deliver accountability and transparency, and I call for his resignation. So you want him fired? Absolutely. It has an impact on, first of all, adversaries are watching. If you look at the national security challenges around the world today, whether the Middle East on fire, whether you think about China continuing to be on the rise, continuing to watch for American weakness, this asserts American weakness.

1 (48m 58s):
Now again, this is now becoming a bipartisan issue, getting rid of Lloyd Austin, the Top House Armed Services Democrat representative Adam Smith of Washington. He says, Biden should think about firing Lloyd Austin.

27 (49m 8s):
We know what happened. I don't know that there's much of an inquiry or much digging that needs to be done. We just need Secretary Austin to answer the question, why did he think that it was appropriate for him not to tell the president that all of this was going on? I think we do need to hear an answer from that, and I think the President needs to evaluate his relationship with the Secretary of Defense based on what happened. And based on that answer,

28 (49m 34s):
Does that mean that you think that he should potentially consider firing him?

27 (49m 39s):
I think I have that conversation. I don't know, like I said, the moment, I can't think of a plausible explanation.

1 (49m 45s):
Okay. That of course, again, is a Democrat, so that Joe Biden's, his administration is chaos. The more focus on that and the less focus on the cast on the other side of the aisle, the better for the Republicans. Meanwhile, the Biden administration continues to sow chaos in the Middle East with its uncertainty and unwillingness to actually just say the thing. And the thing is, Kamas must be destroyed. The Houthis must be stopped. Iran is the actual sponsoring power here. It doesn't mean you have to go to war directly with Iran, but certainly the United States and its allies have the capacity to cut the arms off the octopus. That is the Iranian terror network. But sadly, the US and its allies are still trying to figure out exactly how to stop the Houthis. Again, this notion that the West has no ability to stop a ragtag group of pirates in the Red Sea is totally insane, totally crazy.

1 (50m 29s):
And yet that is precisely what the Biden administration continues to push. It's unclear to them exactly how to stop the Houthis. They say, I mean I'm confused. Can't you just kill a bunch of them? You know, they, they do have these bases that exist right on the coast that they're using in order to launch their inflatables and their drones at ships. Couldn't they, you know, actually just kill a bunch of the Houthis, what explain to me the problem. And yet, according to the New York Times, the United States and Itals are weighing how to stop attacks on commercial ships in the Red Sea. After American and British officials said Wednesday, their Navys had intercepted one of the largest barrages yet of drones and missiles fired from the area controlled by the Houthis, an Iranian back group in Yemen.

1 (51m 10s):
The attacks, which the Houthis say will go on until Israel ends its campaign against Hamas in the Gaza Strip, are threatening maritime traffic in one of the world's most crucial shipping lanes. Anthony Blinken said, what I can tell you is as we made clear, many other countries made clear that it'll be consequences for the Houthis actions. Okay, well, you know, at some point you might wanna actually materialize those consequences, otherwise it sounds like you are a weakling and the shipping costs are piling up. According to the Wall Street Journal, Western importers are reporting a steep rise in ocean shipping rates and weeks long delays. As carriers divert ships from the red seed to avoid Houthis rebel attacks. Some companies shipping goods on the crucial trade lane are starting to chafe at the rising prices and extra fees. Ocean carriers are imposing for the higher cost of rooting container ships on longer voyages all the way around the Horn of Africa.

1 (51m 52s):
Average worldwide cost to ship 40 foot long containers have nearly doubled since late November. That is the fault of the Biden administration, which again continues to send mixed signals in what is the most morally clear conflict in modern history. I'm sorry. When a, when a genocidal terrorist group crosses the border of another country, murders, 1200 of its citizens takes another 240 hostages, there's still a hundred hostages there, and then the power it provoked goes in and wrecks them while attempting to maintain civilian life by the Way at a rate that the enemy certainly would not. Not only would they not, they're literally hiding in civilian areas. This is a particularly clear case of the West should be unified in support of Israel getting rid of Hamas. And if they're ancillary terror groups that are threatening Israel or threatening shipping, which by the Way, forget about what you think about Israel, threatening shipping actually has an impact on your daily life and my daily life.

1 (52m 42s):
If you can't stand up against like, what exact, at what point would you stand up precisely, but the Wild Left continues to run this administration, or at least have heavy impact on this administration. Now, what's amazing about all of this is the Kamas just keeps saying that the quiet part out loud. So yesterday, for example, Hamas' leader, Ismail Hania, he's the political leader of Hamas operating out of Qatar. I I guess he, he may, may be in Turkey at this point. They keep moving him around because he's afraid that he's gonna get killed by the Israelis. Yesterday, he literally said that when you give money to Gaza, it's going to fund Hamas. And meanwhile, the Americans are like, maybe we should give more money to Gaza genius level stuff. Here he says, the second issue is a call to donate money.

29 (53m 31s):
Dear

1 (53m 31s):
Brothers and sisters, let us call this Financial Jihad. The Islamic Nation does not make donations. This is not just a humanitarian issue, despite its immense importance in Gaza's need for any aid it can get. This is Financial jihad. We should resources in, we should revive this principle of Islamic jurisprudence in our Islamic nation. The notion of waging jihad with one's life and one's money. He's calling for foreign aid to the Gaza Strip, so it can be stolen by Kamas and used, and meanwhile, the West, like maybe we should send them more foreign aid. Thankfully, the West is filled with more on left wingers.

1 (54m 12s):
The the best tape of the moron left wingers yesterday standing for Kamas comes from San Francisco. So San Francisco city council voted for a ceasefire, a, a amazing news. I'm sure that Israel's government voted for San Francisco to stop being a homeless ridden feces written hole like that. That meant did it have any impact on the governance of, of San Francisco? No, obviously. So here are a bunch of people who would be murdered immediately by Hamas if Hamas came into contact with them, cheering as they called for a ceasefire in San Francisco by the Way. The same city council hearing saw a person who had five relatives murdered on October 7th testify. And people were making oinking noises in the background as he testified.

1 (54m 52s):
So these people are just at alike by the Way. They're still wearing masks. The year is 2024. I noticed on the calendar. Here we go,

30 (54m 60s):
Three, 3005, three 3009, 3, 3 9.

1 (55m 6s):
Every single one of these people would be dead in Gaza. Every one of them. It's an amazing thing. Why are all their haircuts bad as producer savvy? And the answer is because they're crazy people. That's why. And the Biden administration continues to cater to the crazy people by the Way. So does Harvard. Breaking news from Cassie Dillon over at DailyWire. Harvard is hosting a summer program at a Palestinian university dominated by Hamas. According to Cassie, Harvard University will host a summer program where students will be briefed on settler colonialism at a Palestinian university that called for glory to the martyrs after the October 7th terrorist massacre. The embattled to Ivy League institution's Palestine social medicine course will send Harvard students to Zi University in the West Bank. According to the program's website, it explains the three week intensive summer course is designed to introduce students to the social, structural, political and historical aspects that determine Palestinian health beyond the biological basis of disease.

1 (55m 57s):
The curriculum content will include hearing from health practitioners, academics, and activists about various topics including settler, colonialism and its manifestations. In Palestine, a spokeswoman for Harvard defended the program saying that Beers eight is a public institution governed by an autonomous board of trustees with no political, religious, or sectarian affiliation. Well, the student population literally voted for a Hamas affiliated block in the student government. So basically this place is run, run by Hamas and Harvard is still affiliated because these radical universities are in fact still affiliated with the, with the far left ideology. And the Biden administration wants to win their votes, and so they continue to cater to them. Meanwhile, over at the Hague, at the International Court of Justice, which is just a, a waste of space in a waste of time.

1 (56m 40s):
It's like the United Nations on steroids. The ICJ South Africa is trying to prosecute Israel for genocide while Israel is attacked by a genocidal group, literally targeting Jews for murder. And while a hundred hostages are being held in terror, or maybe they're already dead in Gaza, South Africa, a country famous for its racial tolerance is now suggesting that Israel ought to be persecuted or prosecuted for genocide by the Way. Like four days ago, four days ago, the leader of the Sudanese Rebel Group, the Rapid Support Force, is a person named Hamed Hamdan. Ed Tagalo met President Cyramza in Pretoria.

1 (57m 22s):
Who exactly is Edity? Edity is a person who recently led a, an incredible massacre in Sudan. I mean that that by the Way is according to Reuters. The burials at Albad Cemetery continued for more than seven weeks, from late April until mid-June in Sudan, turning a rectangular plot into a sprawling mass grave for at least 1000 residents of a Sudanese city in West Afer. The carnage was the result of more than 50 days of attacks on the city's majority ethnic African tribe by Sudan's rapid support forces. So South Africa says Israel's engaged in a genocide while they defend themselves, meanwhile, literally hosting genocidal murderers in South Africa. 'cause that's how international all works. And, and the Biden administration is still incredibly trying to cater to the bad guys.

1 (58m 7s):
This presumably is why Secretary of State Anthony Blinken was meeting with Mahmood Abbas in actual Holocaust Deni and the head of the Palestinian Authority. Hilarious I mean it is, it is amazing that the Biden administration is continuing to try to prop up Mahmood. Demas Abbas is a solution in, in the Gaza Strip. He's not even a solution in the West Bank. Mahmud Abbas does not run the West Bank. The West Bank is in a state of turmoil because the Palestinian authority is deeply unpopular. Hamas is way more popular in the West Bank than Abbas. Abbas does not have the authority to even keep a lid on things in the West Bank, which is why you are seeing Israeli operations in the West Bank on a continuous basis against members and affiliates of Hamas. But the United States being completely delusional under Joe Biden has decided the Mabas is somehow the magic solution.

1 (58m 49s):
The magic bullet with regard to the Gaza Strip and the United States is saying that the only path forward for the Gaza Strip is if Israel creates a Palestinian state under whose auspices. So lemme just get this logic. Israel withdraws from a piece of territory in 2005. They hand it over to the Palestinians. The Palestinians promptly wreck every piece of Jewish infrastructure. They promptly elect Kamas an actual genocidal terrorist group as their leaders. That terrorist group spends the next 20 years building up a massive stockpile of weaponry, rockets, building enormous terror tunnels. They launched the single deadliest attack on Jews since World War ii and the administration's response is that Israel should create a Palestinian state. So the last time they tried this was 2005 and it ended really, really poorly.

1 (59m 33s):
The solution is not Mach Debas, and this is all delusional garbage. It's all delusional garbage because this administration does not actually have a clear picture of how the Middle East works by the Way at this point. I just wanna shout out to John Fetterman. John Fetterman is having like a reverse bulworth as my friend John Pat Hortz has said. It's an amazing thing. Here is John Fetterman yesterday speaking, and he was asked about the ICJ in South Africa prosecuting Israel at The Hague. And here he was going off I mean. I don't know what happened to John Federman, but it's, it's like incredible.

31 (1h 0m 4s):
Who are we? Who are they really fighting? It's a group of cowards. They hide in tunnels, they hide behind civilians. They attack, kill and mutilate children, women. And they do that. Stop talking about proportion on that. They shot their best shot on October 7th and they would've taken more lives if they couldn't do that, but they couldn't do it. And now let's also talk about that. Now we're doing, talking about genocide and now South Africa now is now bringing that kind of a, a trial. Maybe South Africa being ought to sit this one out when they're talking about criticizing.

31 (1h 0m 47s):
See it out

1 (1h 0m 50s):
Absolutely correct by John Federman. Again, words that have been spoken a lot lately and I'm not even sure what is going on with it. It's pretty amazing. Alrightyy. Folks, the rest of the show is continuing right now. We're gonna get to California, which apparently is thinking about a wealth tax now. If you're not a member, become member Use Coach Shapiro. Check out for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

PreBorn! (1h 1m 13s):
Folks. Last year, because of you, pre born's network of clinics saved over 58,000 babies. Thank you to everyone who made this possible. When Antoinette found out she was pregnant, she was in a terrible place. She didn't know how she could raise her child on her own. She searched for an abortion clinic, but God led her to a pre-born clinic where she was introduced to her baby on ultrasound and that changes people's lives. When she saw her baby and hurt its heartbeat, she broke down crying. The nurse gently reminded her, A child is a blessing and Antoinette chose life. Preborn saves 200 babies each and every day. For just 28 bucks a month, you can sponsor an ultrasound and help save a life. When a mom sees her baby on the ultrasound and hears their heartbeat, she's twice as likely. Two. Choose life. Just dial pound two 50. Say keyword baby. That's pound two five zero, baby. or visit preborn.com/ Ben. That's preborn.com/ Ben. My wife and I, we have four kids. We met all of them on ultrasound well before they were born. Give a mom the privilege of doing that today and help her choose life. Just dial pound two 50. Say keyword baby. That's pound two five zero baby. or visit preborn.com/ Ben.