LinkedIn (0s):
As a person with a very deep voice. I'm hired all the time for advertising campaigns, but a deep voice doesn't sell B2B and advertising on the wrong platform doesn't sell B2B either. That's why if you're a B2B marketer, you should use LinkedIn ads. LinkedIn has the targeting capabilities to help you reach the world's largest professional audience. That's right. Over 70 million decision makers all in one place, all the big wigs. Then medium wigs, also small wigs who are on the path to becoming big wigs. Okay, that's enough about wigs. LinkedIn ads allows you to focus on getting your B2B message to the right people. So does that mean you should use ads on LinkedIn instead of hiring me, the man with the deepest voice in the world? Yes. Yes it does. Get started today and see why LinkedIn is the place to be to be. We'll even give you a $100 credit on your next campaign. Go to linkedin.com/results to claim your credit. That's linkedin.com/results. Terms and conditions apply.

1 (1m 1s):
So last night, CENTCOM, as well as a bunch of other foreign countries, part of an American alliance struck at targets in Yemen. They struck the Houthis. The Houthis are a ragtag group of terrorists who have taken over a large swath of Yemen after a massive civil war between the Houthis and the Saudis over control of the country. The Iranians have been funding the Houthis for years and years and years, and we'll get into the history of what exactly happened with the Houthis. Suffice it to say the reason that all of this is happening right now is because the Houthis decided that they were going to try to act as an Iranian proxy arm and generate support for Iran by attacking Israel, and then by more largely attacking shipping in the red Sea, now shooting off a few rockets or missiles at Israel that get down by American ships or by the Saudis that really didn't have much of an impact on world opinion or on the world at large.

1 (1m 49s):
But attacking ships in the red Sea absolutely does. According to centcom, the Houthis have carried out at least 27 attacks on commercial ships since mid-November, between December 16th and January 4th. According to the Wall Street Journal, the US Navy said it had shot down 61 missiles and drones. 1500 commercial vessels had safely crossed the red Sea. But the biggest problem with the hubbub in the red Sea and in the BA El Man rai, which is where a huge percentage of the world's oil supplies travel through, and a huge percentage of shipping generally travels through that. Straight shipping is down dramatically. According to CNBC. Just a couple of days ago, rates for freight traveling from Asia to Northern Europe more than doubled to above $4,000 per 40 foot equivalent unit.

1 (2m 29s):
It's a container Asia Mediterranean prices climbed to over $5,100 per container. Some carriers had announced rates above $6,000 per 40 foot container. You're talking about, in some cases a doubling of cost rates from Asia to North America's East coast have risen by 55%. West Coast prices climbed 63%. So if you like the supply chain bottlenecks created by Covid, basically this group of pirates in an attempt to generate support for Iran among the Arab Street in the Middle East, they have basically created massive cost for American and Western consumers and they've shut down large swaths of world trade. Now you have a 90% reduction year over year in traffic through the Red Sea from the prior year.

1 (3m 13s):
Well, all of this drove last night an allied attack on certain resources in Yemen controlled by the Houthis. It was a telegraphed punch, meaning this entire exercise was designed to deter the Houthis, not designed to actually kill or destabilize the Houthis, who in fact, as we say, our terrorist group that governs a large swath part of Yemen. The reason to telegraph the attack is to allow Iranians to get their military forces out of the way so as not to provoke and provoke some sort of escalation with Iran more directly, because of course, Iran has lots of forces on the ground helping out the Houthis in Yemen, according to the Wall Street Journal that US led coalition launched more than a dozen strikes on HHI rebel targets in Yemen, two days after the Yemeni rebel force to fight an ultimatum to halt its attacks on ships transiting the red Sea with a barrage of missiles and drones.

1 (3m 58s):
Those strikes were conducted by the United States and British forces. They were supported by Australia, Bahrain, Canada, and the Netherlands. Now the Saudis, they said that they were concerned about the escalation, but let's be real about this. Bahrain works very closely with the Saudis. Bahrain would not have joined this coalition or allowed its airspace to be used for an attack like this without the go ahead of the Saudis. The coalition strikes early Friday morning, local time targeted radar systems, air defense systems, storage and launch sites for one-way attack unmanned aerial systems, cruise missiles and ballistic missiles said US central command, a US submarine, several destroyers and jet fighters, part of the s s Dwight d Eisenhower aircraft carrier strike group took part according to a US defense official who the officials reported explosions in the capitol of Yemen, which is called Ana, and the provinces of Hode da Ada Dammar and elsewhere, they blame this on the American Zionist, British aggression against Yemen.

1 (4m 46s):
Israel did not take part in these attacks, though obviously Israel does have aircraft that are capable of taking part in attacks like this. Ena host, the Houthis missile inventories attack on vessels were launched from the Port of Hode. According to shipping executives, president Biden immediately issued a statement. He said, these targeted strikes are a clear message to the United States, and our partners will not tolerate attacks on our personnel or allow hostile actors to imperil freedom of navigation in one of the world's most critical commercial roots and will not hesitate to direct further measures to protect our people and the free flow of international commerce as necessary. Meanwhile, the British Prime Minister Rishi Sak said the Royal Air Force participated in the strikes also because quote, the United Kingdom will always stand up for freedom of navigation and the free flow of trade. For British typhoon jet fighters targeted a Houthis drone base in northwestern Yemen and an airfield used to launch cruise missiles over to the Red Sea quote.

1 (5m 30s):
Early indications are that the Houthis ability to threaten merchant shipping has taken a blow. The Houthis of course, say they're not going to be deterred. 'cause the way this works in the Middle East is that you have basically terrorist groups that provoke a response from an overwhelming power. They get their assets absolutely kicked and then they claim that just because they survived, they won. That's what's currently going on in the Gaza Strip. Hamas provokes a gigantic Israeli military response, the largest Israeli military response to any attack since 1973, and they get their asses absolutely handed to them and most of their fighters killed and most of their leadership killed. And then if they are breathing at the end of it, they claim victory. The Houthis are playing the same game. It it's, it's really honestly cowardly sort of stuff. Nassar Alden re hou, the official told the Wall Street Journal, this is a brutal aggression.

1 (6m 13s):
I love this. It's a brutal aggression. Honest to God, if America and its allies wanted to commit quote unquote brutal aggression against the who, these, this guy would not be alive to talk about it, say the will undoubtedly pay its price will not waver in our stance to support the Palestinian people regardless of the cost. After the coalition strikes, the US had not seen any direct retaliatory action directed toward us or other coalition members in the red Sea. And again, the strikes came with a lot of warning. One week ago, the US Britain key allies issued an ultimatum saying, stop it, and then they didn't stop it. And then on New Year's Day, Biden convened his national security team to discuss the options. And then despite the coalition warning, the Houthis fired an anti-ship ballistic missile that fell into the water within sight of a commercial vessel. Now, the Houthis knew that the United States and its allies were going to strike all of these targets, and so they had relocated some of their weapons and equipment and fortified others.

1 (6m 60s):
The question is whether this is going to deter further action from the Houthis, the answer is probably not. When you telegraph punches like this, it is very unlikely that that is going to convince the Houthis to stop what they are doing. The allies for their part, they put forward a statement explaining what they were doing. This is a joint statement from the governments of the United States, Australia, Bahr and Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Republic of Korea, Singapore, and the United Kingdom. Say, recognizing the broad consensus as expressed by 44 countries around the world on December 19th, 2023, as well as the statement by the UN Security Council on December 1st, 2023, condemning who the attacks against commercial vessels transiting the red Sea in light of ongoing attacks, including a significant escalation over the past week, targeting commercial vessels with missiles, small boats, and attempted hijackings.

1 (7m 42s):
We hereby reiterate the following and warn the who these against further attacks. We get to more on this in just one second. First, a few decades ago, private citizens used to be mostly that private. Well, the internet has now changed everything.

ExpressVPN (7m 53s):
Think about everything you've browsed, searched for, watched, tweeted. Now imagine all of that data being crawled through, collected, aggregated by third parties into a permanent public record your record, having a private life exposed for others to see. That was something that only celebrities used to worry about. But in an era where everyone is online, everyone is now a public figure to keep my data private. When I go online, I turn to express VPN. Did you know there are hundreds of data brokers out there whose sole business is to buy and sell your data? The worst part, they don't have to tell you who they're selling it to or get your consent. One of the data points is your IP address. Data harvesters use that IP to uniquely identify you and your location. But with Express VPN, my connection gets rerouted through an encrypted server. My IP address is masked every time I turn express VPN on. I'm given a random IP address shared by other express VPN customers, which makes it much more difficult for third parties to identify me and harvest my data. The best part, it's really easy to use Express VPN. No matter what device you are on, phone, laptop, smart tv, all you have to do is tap one button and now you're protected. So if like me, you believe your data's your business, secure yourself with the number one rated VPN on the market. Visit ExpressVPN dot com slash Ben, get three extra months for free. That's ex PR es svpn.com/ Ben.

1 (9m 1s):
Ongoing. Who the attacks say the allies in the red Sea are illegal, unacceptable, profoundly destabilizing. There is no lawful justification for intentionally targeting civilian shipping and naval vessels attacks on vessels, including commercial vessels using unmanned aerial vehicles, small boats and missiles, including the first use of anti-ship ballistic missiles against such vessels are a direct threat to the freedom of navigation that serves as the bedrock of global trade. In one of the world's most critical waterways, these attacks threatened innocent lives from all over the world and constitute a significant international problem that demands collective action. Nearly 15% of all global seaborne trade passes through the red Sea, including 8% of global grain trade, 12% of Seaborne traded oil, 8% of the world's liquified natural gas trade. International shipping companies continue to reroute their vessels around the Cape of good hope, adding significant cost and weeks of delay to the delivery of goods, and ultimately jeopardizing the movement of critical food, fuel, and humanitarian assistance throughout the world.

1 (9m 50s):
Let our message now be clear. Say the allies we call for the immediate end of these illegal attacks and release of unlawfully detained vessels and crews, the who these will bear the responsibility of the consequences should they continue to threaten lives. The global economy and the free flow of commerce in the region's of critical waterways remain committed to the international rules-based order and are determined to hold malign actors accountable for unlawful seizures and attacks. Now, part of this is directed at the Houthis. Part of it is directed at Iran because Iran actually did seize another ship just yesterday. And part of this is directed at China because China obviously has a very large interest in a Taiwanese election that is about to happen over there. The Taiwanese election, all the parties involved are not interested in reunifying with China, but there are some parties that are a little bit more appeasement oriented toward China.

1 (10m 34s):
The reason the United States caress about this is because TSMC is the largest sophisticated microchip producer on planet earth. They're sophisticated microchips are in all of America's military tech, 92% of all sophisticated microchips on planet earth, the superconductors, those are created in Taiwan right now. There is a military refusal by Taiwan to give that sort of technology to the Chinese. It's one of the reasons the Chinese military is significantly less sophisticated and developed than the United States military. Were those microchips be made available to the Chinese? Not only would it facilitate an invasion of Taiwan, it would also directly threaten the United States because suddenly the military capacity of the Chinese would be radically increased.

1 (11m 15s):
So what's happening right here is if the Chinese look and they see that global shipping could be threatened by again, a group of poverty, poverty-stricken pirates in Yemen, then they would say to themselves, okay, what sort of damage can we do with a weak west in the Taiwan Strait where a huge percentage of the world's trade is located in the South China Sea I mean what? What exactly could we do that could project theoretically to the Strait to Malacco where nearly 100% of global trade has to pass through? So China is looking on and they're seeing whether Western weakness would allow again for a bunch of not insanely well-equipped pirates, terrorists to hold up all of global trade and double supply chain prices.

1 (11m 58s):
And so it's very important that the West did something about this just on a practical level. Now, on the moral level, the Houthis are some of the worst people on planet earth and legitimately evil awful group. So the Houthis are Iranian proxy group. Iran, as we've explained, is a terrorist sponsor. It has its tentacles all over the Middle East. It has its tentacles in Iraq, obviously, where they've had significant impact on the government of Iraq. They have their tentacles in Syria where they're allied with Bashar Assad. They have their tentacles in Lebanon where they effectively control the government via Hezbollah. They have their tentacles in Hamas, they have their tentacles in Palestinian Islamic Jihad, and they have their tentacles with the Houthis. Those tentacles are all over the Middle East. Now, one of the big problems that Iran historically has had is that Iran is Shia and a huge percentage of the Middle East is Sunni.

1 (12m 44s):
And because of that, there is not a lot of solidarity between the Shia and the Sunni. I mean the, the reality is that whatever the hatred is for the Jewish state in the Middle East, the hatred for Israel, that's mostly a sideshow between the ongoing wars that have been happening between Shia and Sunni over the course of the past several decades. A multiple more Arabs and Persians have been killed in a variety of wars since the 1980s than anything that's happened with regard to the Jews, right? All the hatred of the Jews does is it allows for the possibility of some sort of cross-cultural communication between Shia and Sunni in the Middle East. And that's what the Houthis are trying to do right now. They're trying to rally support to the Iranian side in any sort of Shia Sunni conflict by siding with the Palestinians, because one of the things that's happened is that the Palestinians being an incredibly radicalized population that literally no Arab state will take in, not only will no Arab state take in the Palestinians, Arab states have expelled the Palestinians before in the aftermath of the Gulf War, 200 to 300,000 Palestinians were expelled from Kuwait because they sided with Saddam Hussein in his war against Kuwait in the first Gulf War.

1 (13m 43s):
So none of the Arab states are interested in taking in the Palestinian population. And so the Hamas snakes went over to Iran and they worked a deal where Iran became one of their chief suppliers. And it turns out that the SUNY states they have no interest in working with the Palestinians. Again, very radicalized population that destabilized virtually every regime they've come into contact with by the Way. This is why you're seeing Jordan right now issuing these very loud statements because they're deeply afraid of their own population. 70% of Jordan is Palestinian and they're afraid that their kingdom will be overthrown. This would not be the first time they had feared this. Obviously in the early 1970s, Jordan expelled tens of thousands of Palestinians because of threats of overthrowing the regime in what was called black September.

1 (14m 24s):
So the basic idea here is that if you are Iran and you're seeking to buy legitimacy with the Arab Street, you polarize the region around the Palestinians because what you say is look at all these Arab states. They wanna make peace with Israel so they can side against us, but the real enemy is the un, the real enemy is the Jews, and if we all remember that, then maybe we won't have any Abraham Accords. And Iran of course hates the Abraham Accords because it makes them a more minor player in the Middle East. It creates an overwhelming coalition of force that exists around its borders. That's the whole purpose of the Kamas attack. It's why the Yemeni Houthis are now involved in a, in a fight that really has nothing to do with them because again, this is all being directed from above by Iran.

1 (15m 7s):
We'll get to more on this in just one second. First,

Balance Of Nature (15m 9s):
Balance Of, Nature fruits and veggies. They're a great way to make sure you're getting essential nutritional ingredients every single day. Balance Of Nature uses an advanced cold vacuum process that encapsulates fruits and veggies into whole food supplements without sacrificing their natural antioxidants. The capsules are completely void of additives, fillers, extracts, synthetics, pesticides are added sugar. The only thing in balance of nature's fruit and veggie capsules are, you know, like fruits and veggies. Right now, not only will my listeners get 35% off your first order, you'll now get a FREE Fiber and Spice supplement as well. Balance of Nature's Fiber and Spice supplement. It's a revolutionary Fiber drink with a unique blend of 12 spices and Whole Foods Producer Z actually brings balance of nature's fruit and veggie capsules on the road. It helps keep him working at tip top levels. It'll help you too. There's never been an easier way to make sure you're getting your daily dose of fruits and veggies. Experience Balance Of Nature. For yourself today, go to Balance Of Nature dot com. Use promo coach Shapiro for 35% off your first order as a preferred customer. Plus, get a free bottle of Fiber and Spice. That's Balance Of Nature dot com promo code Shapiro 35% off your first preferred order, plus a free bottle of Fiber and Spice.

1 (16m 13s):
Now, the Houthis themselves, as I say, just the that group, the the worst people in the world, their literal slogan, I kid you not, it's like on their bumper stickers or something, if they had bumper stickers on their goats, they're their literal slogan is quote, alahu Akbar, death to America. Death to Israel, cursed Be the Jews victory to Islam. It's a little long and it doesn't rhyme, but it pretty much says it all. That's pretty strong slogan. They're not really hiding the ball there, but it turns out that their hatred is not just against America and Israel and the Udin. Their hatred also is for their own children because apparently about one third of the entire Houthis military force is underage.

1 (16m 52s):
They used child soldiers regularly by the Way, not a rarity. Iran used to use child soldiers in the Iran Iraq war. The Iranian regime famously gave golden keys to kids and sent them out to the battlefield. The keys were supposed to Unlock the gates of heaven. This is a real thing that happened during the Iran Iraq War by the Way. Hamas uses child soldiers all the time. Westerners don't understand how people who are non-Western fight, they don't understand this. But this is a reality in the Middle East, it was a reality in Afghanistan by the Way. I remember recently we talked with Tim Kennedy, there's a Green Beret. There's nothing more dangerous than an 11-year-old with an ak and we're, and if, if you're a westerner, you're like, what are you even talking about? An 11-year-old with an ak? But when you actually recruit children into your army, that's what you get.

1 (17m 33s):
The Houthis have been doing this for years. According to VOA news, Yemen's, Hhy rebels are still recruiting children into their military ranks to fight in the country's grinding civil war by the Way. Hundreds of thousands of people have been killed in the Civil War once again, demonstrating the world does not give any bleeps at all about dead Muslims, so long as other Muslims are killing them, zero bleeps, none. Zip zilch to who the officials told the ap. The rebels recruited several hundred children, including those as young as 10. Over the past two months, they've been deployed to front lines as part of a buildup of force is taking place during a UN broker truce, the UN doing monumental work. This is back in June of 2022. The Houthis have used what they call summer camps to disseminate the religious ideology and to recruit boys to fight by the Way.

1 (18m 13s):
Hamas does exactly the same thing in the Gaza Strip, exactly the same thing. So when you see by the Way statistics from the Gaza Strip put out by Hamas where it says How many women and children are killed, the designation of children, meaning in the West would be anyone under the age of 18. That includes a bunch of people who are in fact Kamasa operatives because they start them real young in the gospel. Doesn't mean everyone who's being killed, obviously is a member of Kamas or Kamas operative, but Israel is being very, very meticulous about who they're killing. And a lot of the people that they're killing unfortunately, are in fact minors who have been recruited into the ranks of terrorist groups by terrorists. 'cause terrorists don't have your moral standards. They think that your morality is stupid and they take advantage of it.

1 (18m 53s):
The Yemeni conflict, of course, erupted in 2014. That is when the Houthis descended from their northern enclave and they took Sah and a Saudi LED coalition entered the war in early 2015. And this brings up exactly what Joe Biden did. Okay, so what is happening right now, the que, the only question is to Western strikes on the Houthis is whether those are sufficient to deter the Houthis from continuing their periodical activity in the Red Sea and the Bao Mount of Strait. Now, all the talk about Iran getting directly involved in the war or escalating into a larger war with the United States, that'd be the dumbest thing Iran ever did. The way that the Iranian mulls are thinking right now is we're about five minutes from developing a nuclear weapon, at which point we're untouchable. Why would we get in a shooting war with the most powerful military force in the history of the world?

1 (19m 36s):
That'd be like the dumbest thing they ever did. So right now, a lot of what's going on is trying to uphold the credibility of their supposed commitment to Hamas, and they made a commitment to Hamas that they were gonna back Hamas. Hamas again succeeded beyond its wildest dreams on October 7th. They're getting their asses absolutely handed to them in the Gaza Strip. And so what you see is Iranians other, Iran's other proxies, Hezbollah, the Houthis, you're seeing them do these sort of low level attacks against Israel and its allies in the region in an attempt to establish credibility with the Arab Street or the Muslim Street, and that's what that is. But they don't wanna provoke a general war. I mean, again, if Iran provoked a general war, it would be the worst thing they ever did by the Way. Unlike Iraq during the Iraq war, there were certainly people who wanted to rise up against Anam Hussain's regime.

1 (20m 18s):
The biggest problem with Iran is the IRGC, which is a generalized terrorist group that is the, that is the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, their giant army. But the actual population of Iran significantly more moderate and significantly more modernized than the population of Iraq, for example. Again, none of this is a case that we should get into a war with Iran. The point here is that Iran doesn't want us to get into war with Iran, which is why we're gonna back them down. The only question is whether the actions of Joe Biden by effectively hitting empty buildings is going to be enough to back the who these off or whether the United States and its allies is gonna have to escalate this thing far enough that the Houthis actually back down. Are they gonna have to threaten to destroy the Houthis in order to back them down? All of this by the Way could have been prevented. All of this could have been prevented.

1 (20m 58s):
And in fact, none of this happened. Well, for example, Donald Trump was president. Why? Well, maybe it's because Joe Biden is a weakling on foreign policy. Weakness on foreign policy breeds aggression. Aggression breeds response. This is the typical pattern in Western foreign policy. The West says, we'll go hands off. We don't want anything to do with this. We're just gonna move out. And then something aggressive happens that hurts American interest and then America has to respond. If America responds harshly enough, suddenly enough, sometimes the water's cool. But if America doesn't respond harshly enough, that breeds a response by the other side. America has to escalate. That is the problem. So the question here is whether this particular response will be enough to back the who these down.

1 (21m 39s):
I somehow doubt it. We'll get to more on this in just one second.

ZipRecruiter (21m 42s):
First, let's say that you have an amazing producer, like Savvy. There's only one problem with your producer, which is that she is honed in like a laser beam, not on politics, but on, you know, the random, random stories about celebrities and their dating and what's going on in reality tv. And she insists on filling you in on this every single morning. Well, you might think about finding somebody who isn't more interested in Taylor Swift than what's going on with Joe Biden. That's why you would check out ZipRecruiter. According to Forbes, January is the hottest month for hiring business owners and hiring managers are on the hunt for top talent. That's no easy task. If you're currently hiring, you can probably relate. It's challenging to find those qualified candidates, which is why you need ZipRecruiter. ZipRecruiter's Powerful matching technology finds the right people for your roles fast. And right now you can try it for free at ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire. Immediately after you post your job, ZipRecruiter Smart Technology starts showing you candidates whose skills and experience match it to encourage top candidates to respond to your job post even sooner. ZipRecruiter lets you send them a personal invite to apply, and as you rate those candidates, ZipRecruiter will send you more of the ones you like from the thousands of new job seekers who join the site this month. Find the talent you need to fill all your roles with ZipRecruiter. See for yourself by four outta five employers who post on ZipRecruiter, get a quality candidate within day one. Just go to this exclusive web address right now to Try ZipRecruiter for FREE. That's ZipRecruiter dot com slash DailyWire ZipRecruiter dot com slash D-A-I-L-Y-W-I-R-E. Find someone with the Riz. That's a word I learned from Savvy ZipRecruiter, the smartest way to hire.

1 (23m 8s):
Again, all of this was created by Joe Biden's idiotic foreign policy when Robert Gate said that, that Joe Biden had never made a good foreign policy decision. That's about right, that's about right. I'm do a couple flashbacks here. So back in 2020, you'll recall that Donald Trump authorized the killing of an Iranian terror official named Kaseem Soleimani. He was one of the masterminds of pretty much all of Iran's terror wings all around the globe, and he traveled to Iraq, so he wasn't inside Iran and he was killed in Iraq. And Joe Biden, who was running for president at the time, gave this response to the killing of Qem Soleimani, which again was a way for the Trump administration to tell the Iranians, stop facilitating terror. If you keep facilitating facilitating terror, you never know your head might be in a different place from your body tomorrow morning when it comes to Joe.

1 (23m 54s):
But here was Joe Biden's response at the time.

2 (23m 57s):
Donald Trump does not have, lemme make it clear, does not have the authority to go to war with Iran without congressional Congressional authorization, without working with Congress. It is not optional. It is not an optional part of his job. Presidential notification of Congress about the need exercise, war powers cannot be satisfied in 280 characters or less, and no president should ever take the United States to war without securing the informed consent of the American people.

1 (24m 32s):
So first of all, this is idiotic. When he said it, the killing of Kaseem Soleimani was not taking America to war in Iran. And as we'll see, this is now a common talking point against the United States and its allies ensuring freedom of shipping in the Red Sea. But this was Biden's angle on Iran from the very beginning. And in fact, one of the very first things that The Biden administration did when they entered office, like one of the very first things in the first month of his administration is they delisted the Houthis as a global terrorist organization. According to pbs.org, this is February 16th, 2021, The Biden administration officially lifted the designation of the Iranian backed who these in Yemen as a global terrorist organization. The announcement came within a larger review of the US relationship with Saudi Arabia. You'll remember that Joe Biden came into office ripping the Saudis and praising the Iranians that worked out amazing in the Middle East.

1 (25m 17s):
Slow clap for this dot. On January 11th, 2021, the Trump administration opposed terrorism sanctions on the Houthis as a group. This Omri Sein reporting to limit any humanitarian fallout. They brought the exempted aid groups, agriculture, medicine, et cetera. But the Washington DC expert class think tankers journalists, the Hill Democratic operatives always considered anything Trump did illegitimate. So they said they were gonna reverse course. Robert Malley, who had hired operatives who literally answered to the Iranian regime, was put in charge of America's Iran policy. So Tony Blinken at his first press availability, the Secretary of State on January 28th, 2021, he was asked which Trump administration policies from the last several months he was going to prioritize reversing.

1 (25m 57s):
He said that getting rid of sanctions on the Houthis was the priority. He said the Houthis control territory, I believe contains about 80% of Yemen's population. We wanna make sure that any of these steps, including the designation, don't make what is already an incredibly difficult task, even more difficult. That is the provision of humanitarian aid to the people of Yemen. Okay, then Biden officials suspended terrorism sanctions on the Houthis. January 25th, they announced revoking them February 5th. Within days, the Houthis started launching mass murders of Yemeni civilians and attacking Saudi Arabia. So then they said they, they tried to fuss their way out of it, but eventually they just released the terrorism designation on February 16th.

1 (26m 39s):
Right? So that was a move that was made overtly by The Biden administration. It was a thing they wanted to do. Meanwhile, you'll recall, Joe Biden took a very antis Saudi position with regard to Yemen because pushed by his left, the idea was that backing the Saudis in their war against the Houthis was more trouble than it was worth. And the way to create a humanitarian peace in the Middle East was not to allow the Saudis to continue to fight the Houthis, the Houthis by the Way, literally enslaved people, they brought back slavery. I'm not kidding you, that's a real thing they did. And Joe Biden at this time, he was too busy worrying about how mean Mohammad bin Salman was the crown prince of Saudi Arabia. This is back on February 4th, 2021.

2 (27m 19s):
We're also stepping up our diplomacy to end the war in Yemen, a war which has created humanitarian and strategic catastrophe. This war has to end and to underscore our commitment, we are ending all American support for offensive operations in the war in Yemen, including relevant arm sales.

1 (27m 42s):
And that worked out amazing. It turns out that defanging the Saudis in the face of the Houthis that worked out great. You mean appeasement of terrorism doesn't work. There's a shock. Meanwhile, the same Biden administration trying to force Israel to appease tists in the Palestinian authority, I mean it's unbelievably stupid. All this is unbelievably stupid and entirely preventable. The math in the Middle East is very simple. Power is the operative concept. If you don't have it, you lose weakness. Appeasement is showing your neck, and that's what Joe Biden did. The White House showed its neck to the Houthis and the Houthis decided to take a bite. Meanwhile, Iran continues to escalate. According to the Wall Street Journal, the Iranian Navy said it had seized an oil tanker off the coast of Oman that has been at the center of dispute between Tehran and Washington, raising the stakes.

1 (28m 26s):
As a US led coalition launched strikes on rebel targets in Yemen I, round b Houthi. Rebels from Yemen have repeatedly targeted the waterways. Of course, apparently Iran's Navy identified the board of tanker as a Greek managed ship called Saint Nicolaus. The tanker was impounded in retaliation for the theft of oil by the American regime. According to the Iranian army, Iranian state media showed Iranian commandos landing on the Shipt stack from a military helicopter. Now it's a little bit more complex because that particular vessel, which was used to be known as the Swiss Raja, its charters pled guilty to charges filed in US Court that it actually carried sanctioned Iranian oil. The company was fined its Iranian oil cargo was seized. The vessel set idle off the coast of Texas for months because federal prosecutors were trying to figure out who exactly would be willing to offload the oil.

1 (29m 10s):
Eventually the Justice Department eventually contracted help to fulfill its forfeiture action. But security analysts and former US officials said the case suggested US efforts to deter Iranian aggression were failing A spokesperson for the Iranian mission at the UN said quote, the Iranian army seizure of the oil tanker does not constitute a hijacking. Rather, it is a willful undertaking sanctioned by a court order and is in response to the theft of Iran's very own oil. We get to more of this in just one second.

Birch Gold Group (29m 35s):
As we've been talking about 2024, it's gonna be totally crazy, a wild ride. The dollar is losing, its buying power faster than wages can increase supply chain problems in the Middle East. Possibility of Chinese blockade of Taiwan's. Let me ask you, how are you protecting your savings? Consider diversifying with gold from Birch Gold Group. For decades, gold has been the choice of investors and central banks to hedge against inflation. I'm using Birch Gold myself for years. Birch Gold can help you create a well thought out and balanced investment strategy. They'll help you convert an existing IRA or 401k into an I RRA in gold without paying a penny out of pocket. And this month only when you open that gold IRA with Birch Gold, you get a free signed copy of my book. The Authoritarian Moment couldn't be more relevant, but you need to text Ben to 98. 98 98 to qualify. Birch Gold has been the exclusive gold company of The, Daily Wire for the past seven years. That's where I get my gold. That's where you should get yours as well. Text Ben to 98. 98 98. Protect your savings. Claim your eligibility for a free sign. Copy of the authoritarian moment. If you diversify now you're gonna feel a lot better when the bleep hits the fan a little bit later. Text Ben to 98. 98. 98 right now.

2 (30m 37s):
So again, what's going to be enough to push Iran off the ball is the big question. Meanwhile, the left is just mad about this because the left is fully on the side of the worst people on earth. Literally the worst people on earth. There are no worse people than the Houthis. They're truly Hamas and the Houthis the same. Hamas, ISIS and the Houthis effectively the same. These are, they have some different agenda items, but in terms of the level of evil, no distinction whatsoever. The New York Times says that this leads to the possibility of a broader conflict. The broader conflict was already there. I noticed when all the prices started to go up 'cause they had shut down in actual shipping hub.

1 (31m 14s):
I love the New York Times. So it, it's not a broader conflict. When the Houthis are shutting down global shipping And, everybody has to reroute around the Cape of good hope. That's not, that's not a problem. The problem is when you try to stop them from doing that again, e, even the so much of anti-ISIS Israel sentiment is actually just anti-Western anti-American sentiment. So much of it is if America defends itself, that's the offensive that's going to lead to escalation. If Israel defends itself, that's the, that's the big problem here. So everybody is worried about the escalation. Meanwhile, Democrats, the more radical Democrats, they of course are jumping in and saying, it's illegal. We can't, we can't have this. We can't to let the who these do this thing. So Ro Kana, who again, I know Roe, nice enough guy, but this is ridiculous.

1 (31m 55s):
He says, the president needs to come to Congress before launching a strike against the Houthis in Yemen and involving us in another Middle East conflict. That is Article one of the Constitution. No it isn't. No, it is not. Okay. The President does have the power to respond in attack scenarios and in wartime scenarios and under the War Powers Act, he then has to inform Congress within 60 days of what he is doing, and then Congress has the ability to stop what he's doing within 60 days. That's the actual legal regime that applies here. The President does have inherent power to take immediate military action without informing Congress. This is not a declaration of war on the Houthis. Fired a few missiles at a few empty factories is what exactly happened.

1 (32m 37s):
Representative Val Hoyle of Oregon tweeted the same thing. Quote, these airstrikes have not been authorized by Congress. The Constitution is clear. Congress has the sole authority to authorize military involvement in overseas conflicts. But no, a again, that's wrong. The War Powers Act governance here. The President has 40 hours to inform Congress and Congress has been duly informed. Meanwhile, Pramila Jayapal says, this is an unacceptable violation of the Constitution. Article one requires military action be authorized by Congress. I love that. All of the exact same members of Congress who said that Joe Biden had the inherent authority to cancel a trillion dollars in student loan debt, that Joe Biden had the inherent ability to mandate that 80 million Americans take a vaccine.

1 (33m 21s):
That Barack Obama had the inherent power to simply pardon millions of illegal immigrants through prosecutorial discretion under daca. These same people are like, if the president fires a a missile hits a camel in the ass, he better inform us. It's a violation of Article one that's like the, that's the most important thing. Oh my gosh. These people like this is, that is not what the Constitution says. It isn't. I'm sorry, it isn't. The President does have some inherent warmaking power. The extent of that Warmaking power is defined by the war powers Act as the Supreme Court has already ruled multiple times. And now again, so much of this is not about even what's going on with Iran. There's an axis that has formed. It is Iran and China and Russia and North Korea is sort of part of it, but nobody cares about North Korea.

1 (34m 4s):
But the it, that's the axis. The axis be, and when I say axi, I mean they actively work with one another. Like Iran gets nuclear technology from Russia, Iran ships drones to Russia, China is getting oil from Iran and Russia, right? That that is the access that has formed. What's more important is that, again, displays of weakness tend to lead to more aggression in global politics. That's just the way this works. So right now there's an election going on in Taiwan, and one of the questions is gonna be just how appeasement oriented is the government, the new government of Taiwan going to be? Because if Taiwan started shipping military tech to China, China would probably be like, okay, we got what we wanted. We don't need to invade or anything. There's an entire article in Politico called If they really want to take Taiwan back, what can we do on the eve of elections?

1 (34m 47s):
Taiwanese voters face a choice between appeasement and resistance. So why exactly would they appease China? Because they're afraid the West is not gonna come to their defense is the real answer. And honestly, under Joe Biden, why would they believe the West is going to come to their defense? I know that Joe Biden has tried to restore some level of credibility, completely lost during Afghanistan. The United States made a 20 year commitment to tens of thousands of American allies in Afghanistan. People who actively worked with the American government made a commitment to tens of millions of people that the Taliban would not remain in control of the government. And then they left all of those people to be ruled by the worst people on earth. Again, the Taliban, the Houthis of aps, okay? This is not that they work together, but they have the same general view of the world.

1 (35m 28s):
Despite religious differences, the they The Biden administration tried to restore deterrence by providing aid in Ukraine, and to a certain extent they did. The question is whether it was enough, is that enough to stop China from doing what it must Now again, here's my outta the box prediction for how the rest of this year goes. If Joe Biden continues to trail Donald Trump in the polls, if we get to June July, again, this is zooming, Trump is nominee. If we get to June, July and Donald Trump is up in the polls by four or five points nationally and leading in the swing states, I think China will make a move on Taiwan and the Taiwanese, I think know this because the Taiwanese are thinking to themselves, okay, if the US isn't gonna come to our defense, then what exactly are we supposed to do?

1 (36m 15s):
Congress recently rejected, of course, a Biden administration proposal according to Politico, to send more than a hundred billion dollars in aid to Ukraine, Israel, and Taiwan. That legislation failed a procedural vote according to Angelo Onga, a Taiwanese American clean energy advocate. She used to say that if China stepped in and tried to shut down the Taiwan Strait, the United States would step in. And she says that she is unsure. Now she says, when a Taiwanese person comes to me and says, you see what they did to Ukraine, they encourage them to stand up and fight Russia and then when things don't go well, they're abandoned. I find it very difficult to have a good comeback to that. But it's not really about Ukraine only, it's about Afghanistan, it's about the US' commitments in Iraq. It's about the fact that the United States population generally does not have the will for long occupations or wars, which is fine, but you can't get involved in those things in the first place if you're not gonna get involved in those things.

1 (37m 4s):
You have to involve yourself in preventative measures so that you don't actually have to engage in the long standing sort of occupations and wars that the United States engaged in for the first 20 years of the new millennium. In just one second, we'll get to more on foreign policy because again, the US military is in catastrophic shape under Joe Biden truly catastrophic shape.

Jeremy's (37m 24s):
First it's a signature razor from Jeremy's Razors. Look at this, this right here, behold a razor. The precision five get one handle plus one blade cartridge kit for only 1499. As you can see, it is magnificent. It is crafted with the luxurious tungsten handle, five welded steel blades, a precision trimmer for a close, smooth shave around hairlines and hard to reach places. But remember, the precision five is no ordinary razor. It is a sword in the battle for beliefs. It's a banners wave into a new economy, a precision instrument to force woke companies to earn back your dollar and stop denigrating your values. It's also still a razor. It'll give you a great shave. The precision five starts at 14.99 with a price this low. It has never been easier to stop giving your money to woke corporations who hate your guts. Join over 200,000 customers who ditched their woke Razors and switched on over to Jeremy's. There's never been a better time. Head on over to jeremy's Razors dot com today.

1 (38m 10s):
Meanwhile, in the midst of all of this cast, the Army's recruitment's efforts continue to be a complete disaster area. According to breitbart.com, the army's recruiting of white soldiers in 2023 had dropped by almost half in the last five years. According to a report, a dramatic decline has coincided with a push by the service to increase recruitment of more diverse population. According to that report, that decline of white recruits has also coincided with the army missing its target of 65,000 recruits in 2023 by 10,000. Again, the the kind of army strategy, which seems to be promotion of diversity above actual military capacity is kind of an amazing thing. And the fact is that disproportionately the military draws from conservative areas of the United States.

1 (38m 53s):
Promoting the individual sexual exploration of your recruits is probably not the thing that is going to draw people to the American military. Meanwhile, Joe Biden, of course, has taken a rather weak position on foreign policy and it's led to all of these conflicts when it comes to the economy by the Way. The economy continues not to be Joe Biden's friend. According to the Wall Street Journal, inflation edged up in December, a reminder of the pressure still facing consumers. Inflation's cooled down from the historic highs of the last three years, keeps the Federal Reserve on track to hold rates steady later this month, but it's not clear they're gonna end up cutting all of those interest rates. And Joe Biden really needs the interest rates cut if he wants to see some sort of artificial economic boom before the election.

1 (39m 34s):
Economic stagnation by the Way is the recipe for the next few years in the United States. The consumer price index increased 3.4% from a year earlier in December. That acceleration from November's 3.1% advance shows inflation is not fully beaten by the Way. When we say not fully beaten, I understand that we all got used to like crazy numbers, like 9% inflation year on year, and a large part of that was because of supply chain shocks. But normally the inflation rate is supposed to be 2%. They're missing that 2% by a large margin when it's coming in hot at 3.4% and when core inflation is at 3.9% and by the Way, you know what's going to exacerbate all that supply chain shocks. It's gonna exacerbate all of that.

1 (40m 13s):
Meanwhile, Joe Biden trying to happy talk his way through this. Here is Joe Biden's top economic advisor, L Brainer. She says, don't worry, Joe Biden is fighting for consumers, which is weird because consumers are just getting shellacked.

3 (40m 24s):
So if you run down inflation from, since President Biden came into office overall, CPI inflation is up 17.6%. Food you're talking about is up about 34%. Electricity is up 27%. So what's your message to Americans who are feeling this every day when they buy and use things?

4 (40m 42s):
Yeah, so the president's message is very much he's fighting for American consumers. He is fighting to lower costs

1 (40m 52s):
By spending more money, by facilitating massive disruptions in the supply chain with Appian. Meanwhile, speaking of other massive disruptions to the American way of life, and one of the biggest problems for Joe Biden is that he could have run as a moderate and governed as a moderate. He could have done those things. He did not do those things. He ran for the primaries as a moderate, then he shifted to his left for the general figuring, he'd beat Donald Trump and then he governed as somebody of the left wing of his party, and now he's held hostage by the left wing of his party. This particular Trump border policy. Again, what's amazing right now is that Joe Biden could fix so many problems with his administration if he would just acknowledge that the border needs to be closed. Remember, there is a bill waiting to be passed that involves massive funding for Ukraine. That would get Ukraine through probably another year of fighting off Russian aggression.

1 (41m 35s):
There's a bill that would provide $14 billion in aid to Israel, so Israel could finish the job with Hamas and also push off Hezbollah in their north. That same bill provides defense aid to Taiwan to prevent the possibility and deter the possibility of a Chinese blockade or invasion of the island. All Joe Biden has to do to get that is solidify the border. That's all he has to do. And he's saying no, he's saying no. And so all of those problems continue to metastasize all of them. Ukraine, Hamas, Taiwan, and the border all continue to metastasize. Why? Because Joe Biden actually wants to stop the first three. He knows that foreign chaos is not good for his reelect efforts, but he will not give up on the open border. It's an amazing thing.

1 (42m 16s):
Why? Because his own base, like large swaths of his own base, have taken the ideological position that people have a right to come to the United States. That is literally the position that's being taken by so many members of his own caucus. So Representative Perilla Jayapal, a wild left, progressive, crazy, kooky person. She says that Joe Biden has been too heavy handed on the southern border. I mean I, I don't even know what to say to that. I've been to the southern border. That is just a lie. He's been too heavy handed on the southern border. I mean the border patrol has already been turned into Belman for illegal immigrants. That's exactly what's happened on the southern border. I mean we'll have all sorts of content coming out about this in in the near future. All the film and and what's going on. It's a deep dive into the border.

1 (42m 55s):
It is a disaster area down there, but the only, I guess Pramila Jayapal is just mad that the border patrol agents aren't bringing like fizzy drinks for the illegal immigrants. Like that's the only thing I can think of that she's talking about here.

5 (43m 9s):
There is so much fear-mongering going on that it is difficult to know exactly where to start. But let me say this first, The Biden administration is enforcing immigration laws. In fact, the administration has been so heavy handed in recent months that I have serious concerns about how they are conducting border enforcement

1 (43m 31s):
Out of their mind, out of their damned minds. Heavy handed. By what metric? By what metric? We went through the stats a little bit earlier this week by the stats. At least 2.4 million people have entered the country illegally, at least across the southern border in the last year. Okay? That in fiscal year 2023. That's insane. Okay? But, but it's too heavy handed. Again, if Joe Biden chooses to allow his campaign to be held hostage by these people, he's going to lose and he deserves to lose, which is why Republicans should probably get out of his way or like, don't first rule politics, don't get in the way of your opponent when he's making a mistake. It's why all the fights that are happening right now about budgeting and all the rest of this.

1 (44m 12s):
Let's be real about this. The serious drivers of federal debt are not all the discretionary programs that are currently being greenlit in whatever budget deal. Mike Johnson cuts with the Democrats. I don't love it. I think it's a bad deal. Also, you have a Democratic senate and a Democratic president. Let's be real about this. What Republicans need, what the country needs more than anything else is Joe Biden out of office and Democrats not in control in the Senate. If you get in the way of that, you are going to end up with more Democratic governance in order to actually effectuate your agenda. You have to hold power. You can't just hold some of the power. You have to hold enough power to be able to do what you want to do. This is why you know I have nothing but sympathy for people who are very upset with the deal that Mike Johnson is about to cut with regard to the continuing funding of the government.

1 (44m 56s):
But this notion that you're gonna oust him because you're mad at him. Now, I said McCarthy, 'cause you were mad at him. Maybe the incentive structure is that he's gonna have to cut that deal because what is the alternative going into permanent government shutdown? I know there's some people in the base who might want that. Lemme just explain. If that happens. Joe Biden is the president for another four years. Meanwhile, Joe Biden is obviously ailing and this also has an impact on how foreign policy is conducted. It has a feeling. It is, it is a, there's a pervasive feeling. This administration is not in control and it's completely out of control. Now, what was always funny about the Trump administration is Trump himself felt like he was not in control, but it felt like the administration was in control. Why? Because Donald Trump was the rhetorical face of his own administration, but his rhetoric very often did not match his policy.

1 (45m 37s):
It's why by the Way, you are seeing emerging gaps inside the Republican coalition on a wide variety of ideological issues. Because Trump talked in one way and then his administration did something different and Donald Trump talked like an isolationist. But then his administration was pretty hawkish. Donald Trump, for example, was big into the idea of say, American subsidies and tariffs, but his administration actually facilitated, for the most part free trade deals and nons subsidies, right? So, so a lot of what his administration did is not the stuff that Donald Trump talked about. And so, so there was always a feeling with Trump that, okay, fine, so he's tweeting something now, but at least I know, at least I know that the economy is good and peace is breaking out in the Middle East and we don't have an ongoing supply chain crisis in the red Sea, and we're not super worried about China invading Taiwan and all like that's how it feels with Joe Biden, number one, he can't actually speak anymore every time he speaks.

1 (46m 26s):
As I've said before, it's like watching Nick Wallenda cross a volcano on a tightrope. You're just waiting for him to fall down. That's the real reason you're watching is because you wanna know where you were. The moment that Joe Biden collapsed, I mean it really is sad. It's not good for the country, it's not good for Joe Biden. It's really sad and beyond that, so he can't speak and his administration is out of control. So he's got a Secretary of Defense who goes completely AWOL for a week. No problem. He's got a Secretary of transportation who's go, who goes completely AWOL for two months. No problem. Who the hell is in control over there? It certainly is not Joe Biden. How much is it not Joe Biden. They're now trotting out Jill to basically say you should have sympathy for my aged husband. So yesterday Joe Biden did the rounds talking about how Joe Biden's age was an asset.

1 (47m 6s):
If his age were an asset, don't you think it would be Joe Biden in this interview? And not Dr. Joe, the greatest doctor of all who can heal your heart attack with an education paper. Here we go.

6 (47m 17s):
Your husband is 81. At the end of a second term, he'd be 86 as his life partner of 46 years. Is there a part of you that is worried about his age and health? Can he do it? He can do it. And I see Joe every day. I see him out, you know, traveling around this country. I see his vigor, I see his energy. I see his passion every single day. So to those who say, I can't vote for Joe Biden, he's too old. What do you say? I say his age is an asset. He's wise. Yes, he's wise. He has wisdom, he has experience. He knows every leader on the world stage.

6 (47m 60s):
He's lived history. He knows history. He's thoughtful in his decisions. He is the right man or the right person for the job at this moment in history.

1 (48m 16s):
I mean just 'cause he lived through the Polynesian war, doesn't mean that he's sentient anymore. He doesn't even, he says he knows every world leader. He doesn't even know who's in the room. He thinks dead people are alive in rooms that he goes into. He doesn't know the names of the members of his own cabinet. He doesn't know where he is half the time, which is why, again, that video last week of Joe Biden giving what was essentially his kickoff campaign speech over at Valley Forge and Joe Biden charging up there like a night nurse's trying to drag him back to bed because he's wandering the halls and may pee in a corner somewhere. I mean it's an amazing video. She literally charges us I mean she's, she's faster than she's like Usain Bolt off that line. He finishes that speech and she's up there like bam, like a shot.

1 (48m 56s):
And she grabs him and she tries to trot him back, but not before. He whispers back in the microphone, I know about power. And then she like drags him off the stage. It's like a vaudeville act. She grabs like a big old cane and just zips him off the stage. And we're supposed to believe that things are going well. And then Jill has to assure us that we don't know how hard Joe works. Well, maybe we don't know how hard Joe works because he calls a lid every afternoon at 2:00 PM so he can go down to the local Denny's for the early bird special.

6 (49m 22s):
And I think what people don't see is how hard Joe works every single day that he gets up thinking what he can do for the American people.

1 (49m 35s):
Oh, is that, is that what he gets up doing? Again? I've said before and it's true. Joe Biden must be the happiest person in the world because every morning he wakes up and somebody tells him he's president. It must be just incredible. So in any case, all of this means that he's in an awful lot of trouble by the Way. One of the ways you know that he's in an awful lot of trouble. An astonishing column today from Brett Stevens. So Brett Stevens is about as large a Trump critic as is possible to be. Brett Stevens is not a Trump fan. I believe he voted against him in both 2016 and 2020. He's a conservative in terms of foreign policy, but not in terms of social policy. He writes a column for the New York Times today, and here is what it says, quote the case for Trump by someone who wants him to lose.

1 (50m 16s):
The entire column is about how things were better when Trump was president. It's true, it's a true thing. He says, barring a political miracle or an act of God, it is overwhelmingly likely that Donald Trump will again be the Republican party's nominee for president. Lord, help us. What should those of us who have consistently opposed him do? You can't defeat an opponent if you refuse to understand what makes him formidable. Too many people, especially progressives, fail to think deeply about the enduring sources of his appeal since I'll spend the coming year strenuously opposing his candidacy. Let me here make the best case for Trump that I can. He says, begin with fundamentals. Trump got three big things right? Arguably the single most important geopolitical fact of the century is the mass migration of people from south to north and east to west, causing tectonic, demographic, cultural, economic, and ultimately political shifts.

1 (50m 58s):
Trump understood this from the start of his presidential candidacy in 2015. Many of Trump's opponents refuse to see virtually unchecked migration as a problem for the west at all. Only now as the consequence of Joe Biden's lackadaisical approach to mass migration have become depressingly obvious on the sidewalks and in shelters in public schools of liberal cities like New York and Chicago are Trump's opponents on this issue beginning to see the point. The second big thing Trump got right was about the broad direction of the country. Trump rode a wave of pessimism to the White House pessimism. His detractors did not share because he was speaking about and two in America they either didn't see or understood only as caricature. But just as with this year, when liberal elites insist things are going well, well overwhelming majority of Americans said they're not. Trump's unflattering view captured the mood of the country.

1 (51m 41s):
Finally, there's the question of institutions that are supposed to represent impartial expertise from elite universities and media to the Centers for disease control and prevention in the FBI Trump's detractors, including me, often argued his demagoguery and mendacity did a lot to needlessly diminish trust in these vital institutions. But we should be more honest with ourselves and admit those institutions did their own work in squandering through partisanship or incompetence, the esteem in which they had once been widely held. Absolutely right. And then he says, you know, there are a lot of readers, and this is the New York Times who are saying, yes, but what about January 6th? What about election denialism and the threat to democracy? But it's important to stretch one's mind. A little says b. Brett Stevenson tried to understand why so many voters are unimpressed about the end of democracy argument.

1 (52m 21s):
For one thing, haven't they heard it before? And with the same apocalyptic intensity in 2016, Trump was frequently compared to Benito Mussolini. Other dictators, including by me, says Brett Stevens, the comparison might have been more persuasive if Trump's presidency. He had been replete with jailed and assassinated political opponents rigged or canceled elections, a muzzled or captured press and Trump's still still holding office today, but none of that is true. Many rank and file Republicans regard the January 6th assault on the capitol as a disgrace and the lowest point of Trump's presidency. But they also believe it wasn't so much an insurrection as it was an ugly temper tantrum by Trump and his most rabid supporters, which never had a chance of succeeding an American version of Vladimir Putin. He simply is not as it is, the 2024 election will not hinge on questions of democracy but of delivery, which candidate will do more for voters.

1 (53m 6s):
And herein you got a problem. This is why Brett Stevens is, he's right. He's right. The systemic problem with Joe Biden's presidency is that he's a bad president, he's bad at the president thing. And so all of these legal attacks on Trump, I don't think they're gonna damage him. They're already baked into the cake. Every outsized, idiotic statement by the left about how Donald Trump is going to disappear, the gays helps. Like when Whoopi Goldberg says this, you think this really hurts Trump? Here's Whoopi Goldberg saying that when Donald Trump becomes president, he's gonna disappear. The gays, which like, are you kidding me? Are you kidding me? In 2016, he held the gay pride flag while he was campaigning Donald Trump as social con warrior theocrat killing the gay.

1 (53m 46s):
Like what in the world? These people are outta their mind.

7 (53m 50s):
I'm gonna be on day one, I'm gonna be a dictator who says it to you, tells you I'm gonna put you people away. I'm gonna take all the journalists, I'm gonna take all the gay folks. I'm gonna move you all around and disappear you. If that's the country you want, you know who to vote for the, if that's not, if that's not the country you want, you have to make a decision.

1 (54m 12s):
Or maybe the decision is between somebody who says wild and crazy things and I disagree with a lot of the things, but actually did the president thing kind of well and somebody who sucks at the president thing. Maybe it's that again, I, I don't know that three, four, that four years out from January 6th, 2021. You can continue to run on this. I just don't know. Like Hakeem Jeffries, speaker of the house in waiting, right? The, the minorities minority leader, Hakeem Jeffries. He says that House Republicans are the party of insurrection and impeachment. Aren't people getting bored with this? Isn't this tired and old

8 (54m 47s):
This week has once again revealed that extreme MAGA Republicans have zero interest in doing anything productive that is designed to benefit the American people. House Republicans are the party of insurrection, impeachment, and illegitimate investigations. Nothing more, nothing less. Insurrection, impeachment, and illegitimate investigations. These extremists have made clear once again this week that they have no ideas, no agenda, no vision, and have made no progress on solving problems for everyday Americans.

1 (55m 44s):
Okay, I have a question. What problems for everyday Americans have you guys solved? Can, like what can we get? Can we get a list? Do they outweigh the problems that you've created for everyday Americans? That is gonna be the question of the 2024 election. Alrighty, folks coming up, we'll be joined on the line by Yosef Haddad. He's an Arab Israeli from Nazareth, CEO of together at vouch for each other, and a commentator on I 24 News, as well as an IDF Combat veteran. If you're not a member, become member Use Coach Shapiro checkout for two months free on all annual plans. Click that link in the description and join us.

Greenlight (56m 15s):
Hey Parents, Greenlight is here to take one big thing off your to-do list teaching your kids about money with a Greenlight debit card and, and money app of their own kids and teens. Learn to earn, save and invest. You can send money instantly. Set flexible controls and get real-time notifications of your kids' money activity, set up chores and put allowance on autopilot to reward them for their hard work. Then learn about the world of money together. Get one month free when you sign up at greenlight.com/podcast.